### 2021 Comprehensive Climate Executive Order
- On January 27th 2021, President Biden signed a executive order on climate change, that puts climate the forefront of all of the federal government’s decision making. [link](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-executive-actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad-create-jobs-and-restore-scientific-integrity-across-federal-government/)
- It establishes the White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy, led by first ever National Climate advisor John Kerry. It also creates National Climate Task force to take a whole of government approach to climate change, assembling leaders from 21 different federal agencies and departments. The order put on hold new environmental regulations issued by the previous administration for review. The order instructs federal agencies to procure carbon pollution free electricity and zero emission vehicles, and is part of President Biden’s plan to replace the entire federal fleet with electric vehicles. [[bidenplanstoreplacegov]] The federal government employees around 2 million people, owns or leases 376.9 million square feet of office space, and makes $600 billion in purchases a year. It is an absolutely massive economic engine, and putting climate at the top of the focus of how the government conducts it’s operations makes a big deal.
- The order also took action to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies, by instructing federal agencies to eliminate all fossil fuel subsidies under their control. While most fossil fuel subsidies are congressionally authorized, this is expected to eliminate billions in fossil fuel subsidies per year. [link](https://grist.org/politics/biden-is-eliminating-fossil-fuel-subsidies-but-he-cant-end-them-all/)
- Additionally, the order halted all new oil and gas leases for 60 days. This ban was extended until the end of June, however it has been put on hold by a Trump appointed judge. [link](https://apnews.com/article/joe-biden-climate-change-environment-and-nature-business-9751c4909a8b1baba28f3bcff9d5fa6e) However, this led to a prohibition on new leases for 4 1/2 months, and the Interior Department still has considerable discretion over how the process plays out.