## Marxist Dialectical Materialism
- In `Dialectical and Historical Materialism`, Stalin writes about the `Marxist Philosophical Materialism` and in section a) `Materialist` he writes,
    - `Contrary to idealism, which regards the world as the embodiment of an "absolute idea," a "universal spirit," "consciousness," Marx's philosophical materialism holds that the world is by its very nature material, that the multifold phenomena of the world constitute different forms of matter in motion, that interconnection and interdependence of phenomena as established by the dialectical method, are a law of the development of moving matter, and that the world develops in accordance with the laws of movement of matter and stands in no need of a "universal spirit." "The materialistic outlook on nature," says Engels, "means no more than simply conceiving nature just as it exists, without any foreign admixture." (Marx and Engels, Vol. XIV, p. 651.) Speaking of the materialist views of the ancient philosopher Heraclitus, who held that "the world, the all in one, was not created by any god or any man, but was, is and ever will be a living flame, systematically flaring up and systematically dying down"' Lenin comments: "A very good exposition of the rudiments of dialectical materialism." (Lenin, Philosophical Notebooks, p. 318.)` [link](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/stalin/works/1938/09.htm)
- While Idealism might not argue against Materialism well, modern conceptions of the Philosophy of Mind have had more contributions since 1938, when this work was published. Materialism, also commonly known as Physicalism has arguments against it, one more commonly known is The Knowledge Argument. The knowledge argument is one of the main challenges to physicalism, the doctrine that the world is entirely physical. The argument begins with the claim that there are truths about consciousness that cannot be deduced from the complete physical truth. A Mary's Room type example provides distinctive reasons for inferring physicalism’s falsity from intuition. Let us take these points in order. The Mary case divides the knowledge intuition into three claims: [link](https://iep.utm.edu/know-arg/)
    - The complete-knowledge claim: before leaving the room, Mary knows everything physical.
    - The learning claim: upon leaving, she learns something.
    - The non-deducibility claim: if the complete-knowledge claim and the learning claim are true, then what Mary learns when she leaves the room cannot be a priori deduced (deduced by reason alone, without empirical investigation) from the complete physical truth.
- It seems as if there is some immaterial form that is unaccounted for in the physicalist model. For an example argument against it I posit Abstractions as immaterial.
    - Argument Against Physicalism
- P1: If physicalism is true, all real things are physical
- P2: Abstractions are not physical but are real
- C1: Therefore, physicalism is false. (by modus tollens)
- In summary, if the idea of materialism is posited, then the mere fact of it being posited as an idea, an immaterial real proposition, it negates the argument.