`Set theory is the foundation of mathematics. All mathematical concepts are defined in terms of the primitive notions of set and membership. In axiomatic set theory we formulate a few simple axioms about these primitive notions in an attempt to capture the basic "obviously true" set-theoretic principles. From such axioms, all known mathematics may be derived.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebyuhltlejphpgrmwn6jbwvqdocfleyea5nzpz4aqkb2t73mgshqo?filename=%28Studies%20in%20Logic%20and%20the%20Foundations%20of%20Mathematics%20102%29%20Kenneth%20Kunen%20-%20Set%20Theory.%20An%20Introduction%20to%20Independence%20Proofs-North%20Holland%20%281980%29.pdf)
### Naive Set Theory
Naive set theory, unlike axiomatic set theories, which are defined using formal logic, is defined informally, in natural language. It describes the aspects of mathematical sets familiar in discrete mathematics and suffixes for the everyday use of set theory concepts in contemporary mathematics.
### Russell's Paradox
The paradox arises within naïve set theory by considering the set of all sets that are not members of themselves. Such a set appears to be a member of itself if and only if it is not a member of itself. Hence the paradox.
Some sets, such as the set of all teacups, are not members of themselves. Other sets, such as the set of all non-teacups, are members of themselves. Call the set of all sets that are not members of themselves “R.” If R is a member of itself, then by definition it must not be a member of itself. Similarly, if R is not a member of itself, then by definition it must be a member of itself.
### Zermelo-Fraenkel Set Theory
Zermelo-Fraenkel Set Theory with the Axiom of Choice included, is the standard form of axiomatic set theory and as such is the most common foundation of modern mathematics.