### 1956 Khrushchev's Secret Speech
- "On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences" popularly known as the "Secret Speech", was a report by Nikita Khrushchev, made to the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) on 25 February 1956. Khrushchev charged Stalin with having created a leadership cult of personality despite maintaining support for the ideals of communism.
    - `Comrades! We must abolish the cult of the individual decisively, once and for all; we must draw the proper conclusions concerning both ideological-theoretical and practical work.` [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzacecbfp53uqbfrgwo2c5l3oqr2relj2ajjfu6e2b6va4t6lwuhh5que?filename=Nikita%20S.%20Khrushchev%20-%20The%20Crimes%20of%20the%20Stalin%20Era_%20Special%20Report%20to%20the%2020th%20Congress%20of%20the%20Communist%20Party%20of%20the%20Soviet%20Union-The%20New%20Leader%20%281956%29.pdf)
- In 1956, Sino-Soviet relations began deteriorating due to the Secret Speech as Mao’s China was built on the same principles as Stalin’s Russia.
    - `The Secret Speech had immediate repercussions inside and outside of the Soviet Union. Even before its official distribution to all CPSU members on March 5, the report had been circulated within the party and then quickly beyond.` [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzaced4sn3i7kz7dz5ye7tlwvaj2zlb5xuiooyj47rxobfcxtahuci2vy?filename=%28Princeton%20Studies%20in%20International%20History%20and%20Politics%29%20Lorenz%20M.%20L%C3%BCthi%20-%20The%20Sino-Soviet%20Split_%20Cold%20War%20in%20the%20Communist%20World-Princeton%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
- In light of this `de-Stalinization`, the CPSU's changed ideological orientation posed problems of ideological credibility and political authority for Mao, who had emulated Stalin's style of leadership and practical application of Marxism–Leninism in the development of Socialism with Chinese characteristics and the PRC as a country.
    - `To understand the Chinese reaction to the twentieth CPSU congress, it is important to recall developments in China’s domestic politics. The failure of the Socialist High Tide began to reveal itself in the spring of 1956. The policy had many of the characteristics of Stalin’s bungled collectivization campaign. Khrushchev’s criticism of Stalin’s crimes was an unintended assessment of Mao’s recent mistakes. The Secret Speech had not been totally unexpected. Since 1953, the ambassador in Moscow, Zhang Wentian, had written numerous reports on subtle changes in Soviet positions on Stalin. The Chinese leaders had also started to work out their own criticism.` [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzaced4sn3i7kz7dz5ye7tlwvaj2zlb5xuiooyj47rxobfcxtahuci2vy?filename=%28Princeton%20Studies%20in%20International%20History%20and%20Politics%29%20Lorenz%20M.%20L%C3%BCthi%20-%20The%20Sino-Soviet%20Split_%20Cold%20War%20in%20the%20Communist%20World-Princeton%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)