- There are two common models of Social Housing, the `Staircase Model` and the `Housing First Model`. The traditional Staircase Model requires people to obtain increasing levels of treatment and social integration (eg, get clean, get a job) before getting full-time housing. The Housing First Model in contrast works differently:
    - `The scheme, introduced in 2007, is called Housing First. It is built on the principle that having a permanent home can make solving health and social problems much easier. The homeless are given permanent housing on a normal lease. That can range from a self-contained apartment to a housing block with round-the-clock support. Tenants pay rent and are entitled to receive housing benefits. Depending on their income, they may contribute to the cost of the support services they receive. The rest is covered by local government.` - [Here's how Finland solved its homelessness problem, World Economic Forum](https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2018/02/how-finland-solved-homelessness/)

- A 2020 journal published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development covered `How Finland Ended Homelessness` where it talks about Finland changing from the staircase model to the `Housing First Model` and their differences in results.
- They found that the staircase model halved homelessness in Finland but stalled in the 1990s,
    - `Using the staircase approach, Finland more than halved homelessness by 1994, but then progress slowed, as shown in exhibit 1. In particular, between 2004 and 2008, the number of single homeless individuals hovered between 7,400 and 7,960. Finland's annual homeless reports attributed the stalled progress to a group of people with high support needs who were experiencing long-term homelessness, analogous to chronic homelessness in the United States (Pleace, 2017). Researchers suggested that the staircase approach can work well with those who have opted for substance abuse rehabilitation and can cope with shared housing. However, the insistence on service users being intoxicant-free and able to take control of their lives has proven to be an insuperable barrier for many homeless people with multiple problems (Tainio and Fredriksson, 2009: 188).` - [A Multiple-City RCT of Housing First With Assertive Community Treatment for Homeless Canadians With Serious Mental Illness, Aubry et al., 2016](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/periodicals/cityscpe/vol22num2/ch4.pdf)
- They also found that starting in 2008, the `Housing First` model converted and purchased thousands of units of housing,
    - `A Housing First approach requires housing, and Finland set about converting shelters into apartment units and buying and constructing housing for Housing First. In 1985, Helsinki had 2,121 shelter and hostel beds, and by 2016, the number had shrunk to 52. Meanwhile, supported housing units in Helsinki grew from 127 to 1,309, and independent rental apartments for (formerly) homeless people increased from 65 to 2,433 (Y-Foundation, 2017: 30). The Y-Foundation is currently the fourth largest landlord in Finland.` - [A Multiple-City RCT of Housing First With Assertive Community Treatment for Homeless Canadians With Serious Mental Illness, Aubry et al., 2016](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/periodicals/cityscpe/vol22num2/ch4.pdf)
- They also found that residents often performed highly visible social work,
    - `Because programs that house a group of clients in the same building can encounter more community resistance than scattered-site apartments, the Finns have developed elaborate strategies to combat opposition from neighbors. Tenants engage in neighborhood work, such as collecting litter or maintaining parks. In one neighborhood, residents donned safety vests and kept watch over a bus stop used by schoolchildren. Neighbors have access to a 24-hour hotline to report any problems (Y-Foundation, 2017).` - [A Multiple-City RCT of Housing First With Assertive Community Treatment for Homeless Canadians With Serious Mental Illness, Aubry et al., 2016](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/periodicals/cityscpe/vol22num2/ch4.pdf)
  
- HUD-U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program was a U.S. implementation of the `Housing First Model`
- A 2014 paper found that:
    - `In conclusion, the results demonstrate the strong association between substance abuse and homelessness, particularly in veterans with comorbid alcohol and drug use disorders. Supported housing appears successful in housing veterans with substance use disorders, although additional efforts may be needed to address their substance abuse once they are housed.` - [Alcohol and drug use disorders among homeless veterans: Prevalence and association with supported housing outcomes, Tsai et al., 2014](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1016/j.addbeh.2013.02.002)
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `Veterans who exited HUD-VASH generally did not return to homelessness within 600 days; approximately one in six of the veterans included in the study sample accessed a VHA homeless program within 600 days of exiting HUD-VASH.` - [Examining the bidirectional association between veteran homelessness and incarceration within the context of permanent supportive housing, Cusack and Montgomery, 2017](https://www.va.gov/HOMELESS/nchav/docs/CusackMontgomery_ExaminingBidirectionalAssociationBetweenVeteranHomelessness.pdf)
- A 2019 paper found that:
    - `For each additional voucher, permanent supportive housing units increased by 0.9 and the number of homeless veterans decreased by 1. Conclusions. Our results indicate the HUD-VASH program worked as intended and veterans’ homelessness would have risen substantially over the past decade without the program.` - [Housing and Urban Development–Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Vouchers and Veterans’ Homelessness, 2007–2017, Evans et al., 2019](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.2105/ajph.2019.305231)