# Medical Transition
- A 2010 meta-analysis found that:
    - `We identified 28 eligible studies. These studies enrolled 1833 participants with GID (1093 male-to-female, 801 female-to-male) who underwent sex reassignment that included hormonal therapies. All the studies were observational and most lacked controls. Pooling across studies shows that after sex reassignment, 80% of individuals with GID reported significant improvement in gender dysphoria; 78% reported significant improvement in psychological symptoms; 80% reported significant improvement in quality of life; and 72% reported significant improvement in sexual function.` - [Hormonal therapy and sex reassignment: a systematic review and meta-analysis of quality of life and psychosocial outcomes, Murad et al., 2010](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1111/j.1365-2265.2009.03625.x) 
- A 2018 literature review found that:
    - `We identified 55 studies that consist of primary research on this topic, of which 51 (93%) found that gender transition improves the overall well-being of transgender people, while 4 (7%) report mixed or null findings. We found no studies concluding that gender transition causes overall harm.` - [What does the scholarly research say about the effect of gender transition on transgender well-being?, Cornell University, 2018](https://whatweknow.inequality.cornell.edu/topics/lgbt-equality/what-does-the-scholarly-research-say-about-the-well-being-of-transgender-people/)
- A 2018 meta-analysis found that:
    - `Despite the limitations of the published literature, this review concludes that overall transgender people display poorer QoL than the general population, particularly pre-GAT (Gender Affirming Treatments), and that QoL improves once people are on CHT (Cross-sex Hormonal Treatment). When specifically looking at the different dimensions of QoL (vQoL, sex-related QoL, and body image-related QoL), findings of the systematic review suggest that transgender people display poorer QoL than the general population, independent of the QoL domain investigated. As per general QoL, all dimensions of QoL have been shown to improve post-GAT.` - [Quality of life of treatment-seeking transgender adults: A systematic review and meta-analysis, Nobili et al., 2018](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1007/s11154-018-9459-y)
# Puberty Blockers
- A 2014 study found that:
    - `Results of this study provide first evidence that, after CSH and GRS, a treatment protocol including puberty suppression leads to improved psychological functioning of transgender adolescents. While enabling them to make important age-appropriate developmental transitions, it contributes to a satisfactory objective and subjective well-being in young adulthood.` - [Young Adult Psychological Outcome After Puberty Suppression and Gender Reassignment, De Vries et al., 2014](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1542/peds.2013-2958)
- A 2020 meta-analysis found that:
    - `The present meta-analysis suggests a potentially enhancing effect of gender-affirming hormone treatment on cognitive function in transgender young adult individuals congruently with their gender identity than birth-assigned sex. Specifically, the existing body of research provides epidemiologic evidence that supports the enhancing role of post-pubertal steroid hormonal administration in visuospatial ability in aF individuals.` - [Gender-affirming hormone treatment and cognitive function in transgender young adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis, Karalexi et al., 2020](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1016/j.psyneuen.2020.104721)
- A 2020 meta-analysis found that:
    - `Studies reviewed had samples ranging from 1 to 192 (N = 543). The majority (71%) of participants in these studies required a diagnosis of gender dysphoria to qualify for puberty suppression and were administered medication during Tanner stages 2 through 4. Positive outcomes were decreased suicidality in adulthood, improved affect and psychological functioning, and improved social life. Adverse factors associated with use were changes in body composition, slow growth, decreased height velocity, decreased bone turnover, cost of drugs, and lack of insurance coverage.` - [Review: Puberty blockers for transgender and gender diverse youth—a critical review of the literature, Rew et al., 2021](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1111/camh.12437)
# Social Transition
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `Transgender children reported depression and self-worth that did not differ from their matched-control or sibling peers (p = .311), and they reported marginally higher anxiety (p = .076). Compared with national averages, transgender children showed typical rates of depression (p = .290) and marginally higher rates of anxiety (p = .096). Parents similarly reported that their transgender children experienced more anxiety than children in the control groups (p = .002) and rated their transgender children as having equivalent levels of depression (p = .728).` - [Mental Health and Self-Worth in Socially Transitioned Transgender Youth, Durwood et al., 2017](https://europepmc.org/backend/ptpmcrender.fcgi?accid=PMC5302003&blobtype=pdf)
- A 2018 paper found that:
    - `There were no differences on depressive symptoms or suicidal behavior by personal characteristics including gender identity, race/ethnicity, sexual identity, age, access to free lunch, or study site. After adjusting for personal characteristics and total social support, chosen name use in more contexts predicted fewer depressive symptoms and less suicidal ideation and suicidal behavior (see Table 1). An increase by one context in which a chosen name could be used predicted a 5.37-unit decrease in depressive symptoms, a 29% decrease in suicidal ideation, and a 56% decrease in suicidal behavior. We observed similar results when we individually tested specific contexts for chosen name use (except that chosen name use with friends did not significantly predict mental health after adjusting for demographics and close friend support). Depressive symptoms, suicidal ideation, and suicidal behavior were at the lowest levels when chosen names could be used in all four contexts.` - [Chosen Name Use Is Linked to Reduced Depressive Symptoms, Suicidal Ideation, and Suicidal Behavior Among Transgender Youth, Russell et al., 2018](https://europepmc.org/backend/ptpmcrender.fcgi?accid=PMC6165713&blobtype=pdf)
# Conversion Therapy?
- A 2009 APA report found that
    - `An estimated 698,000 LGBT adults in the U.S. have received treatment to change their sexual orientation or gender identity at some point in their lives, including about 350,000 who received treatment as adolescents. As of January 2018, nine states, the District of Columbia, and 32 localities had enacted laws banning licensed professionals from using conversion therapy on youth. An estimated 20,000 LGBT youth will receive conversion therapy from a licensed professional before they reach the age of 18 in the 41 states that currently do not ban the practice. In addition, an estimated 57,000 LGBT youth across all states will receive conversion therapy from religious or spiritual advisors. Because of the large number of youth who may be vulnerable to conversion therapy, individuals who have contact with minors should be aware that the American Psychological Association has issued a resolution “advising parents, guardians, young people, and their families to avoid sexual orientation change efforts that portray homosexuality as a mental illness or developmental disorder and to seek psychotherapy, social support and educational services that provide accurate information on sexual orientation and sexuality, increase family and school support, and reduce rejection of sexual minority youth.` - [link](https://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/Conversion-Therapy-Jan-2018.pdf) - Conversion Therapy and LGBT Youth, Mallory et al., 2018
- A 2016 literature review found that
    - `after reviewing the research, we concluded that there is no credible evidence that sexual orientation can be changed through therapeutic intervention. Most accounts of such change are akin to instances of “faith healing.” There is also powerful evidence that trying to change a person’s sexual orientation can be extremely harmful. Taken together, the overwhelming consensus among psychologists and psychiatrists who have studied conversion therapy or treated patients who are struggling with their sexual orientation is that therapeutic intervention cannot change sexual orientation, a position echoed by all major professional organizations in the field, including the American Psychological Association` - [link](https://whatweknow.inequality.cornell.edu/topics/lgbt-equality/what-does-the-scholarly-research-say-about-whether-conversion-therapy-can-alter-sexual-orientation-without-causing-harm/) - What does the scholarly research say about whether conversion therapy can alter sexual orientation without causing harm?, Cornell University, 2016
# Social Contagion?
## Littman 2018
- Lisa Littman's 2018 study on Rapid Onset Gender Dysphoria (ROGD) was a study conducted on the possibility of being transgender spreading socially. it has been cited to argue that trans people have a social contagion or that trans people are delusional, or more mildly to say that ROGD only explains the rise in gender dysphoria cases among teens.
    - A 2018 paper found that `There were 256 parent-completed surveys that met study criteria. The AYA children described were predominantly natal female (82.8%) with a mean age of 16.4 years at the time of survey completion and a mean age of 15.2 when they announced a transgender identification. Per parent report, 41% of the AYAs had expressed a non-heterosexual sexual orientation before identifying as transgender. Many (62.5%) of the AYAs had reportedly been diagnosed with at least one mental health disorder or neurodevelopmental disability prior to the onset of their gender dysphoria (range of the number of pre-existing diagnoses 0–7). In 36.8% of the friendship groups described, parent participants indicated that the majority of the members became transgender-identified. Parents reported subjective declines in their AYAs’ mental health (47.2%) and in parent-child relationships (57.3%) since the AYA “came out” and that AYAs expressed a range of behaviours that included: expressing distrust of non-transgender people (22.7%); stopping spending time with non-transgender friends 25.0%); trying to isolate themselves from their families (49.4%), and only trusting information about gender dysphoria from transgender sources (46.6%). Most (86.7%) of the parents reported that, along with the sudden or rapid onset of gender dysphoria, their child either had an increase in their social media/internet use, belonged to a friend group in which one or multiple friends became transgender-identified during a similar timeframe, or both.` - [link](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/file?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0202330&type=printable) - Parent reports of adolescents and young adults perceived to show signs of a rapid onset of gender dysphoria, Littman, 2018
- The methodological problems with the paper included:
    - The sample group of parents was drawn exclusively from websites openly hostile to transgender youth and their issues, thus deliberately skewing the results. Websites named, `[4thwavenow.com](https://4thwavenow.com/), [transgendertrend.com](https://www.transgendertrend.com/), [youthtranscriticalprofessionals.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20160405015522/http://youthtranscriticalprofessionals.org/about/) (is now private)` were the subject of the survey.
    - Littman failed to acknowledge or account for the skew she introduced.
    - Survey questions seem directed toward predetermined conclusions. The study essentially surveyed the people who invented or were predetermined to support ROGD on whether they believe ROGD is real, then made its conclusions based on these beliefs.
        - 4thwavenow.com announcement for participation in the study - `Many members of the 4thWaveNow community are parents of teens who became convinced they were the opposite sex after a steady diet of social media and/or peer influence. In most of our cases, the transgender identity came on suddenly and with little warning.` - [link](https://4thwavenow.com/2016/07/02/rapid-onset-gender-dysphoria-new-study-recruiting-parents/)
    - She spoke with no trans youth, despite drawing conclusions on how such youth arrived at their trans identities, instead basing her conclusions solely on parents’ suppositions and skeptical beliefs.
    - The ‘rapid onset’ often reported by parents is not a new phenomenon. Youth very commonly will delay coming out in hostile environments, being afraid to disclose due to minority stress factors including social stigma, internal stress, fears of rejection by family and friends, and legitimate concerns about violence. Given that these parents sought out hostile websites, the fears of these youth would seem to have been justified.
    - The disaffirming approaches suggested by the Littman study and also by Veissière’s post are likely to yield worsening mental health outcomes and a deterioration of the parent-child relationship.
    - Littman herself has no personal experience working with transgender youth.
- The Journal that published the paper, PLOS ONE, released a blog post about an added correction to the original Littman paper.
    - `In discussion with those parties we have reached the conclusion that the study and resultant data reported in the article represent a valid contribution to the scientific literature. However, we have also determined that the study, including its goals, methodology, and conclusions, were not adequately framed in the published version, and that these needed to be corrected. The changes include revisions of key sections such as title and abstract, which required us to republish the paper, allowing us to update the indexing of the article whilst preserving the original citation information.  
    -   
    - The republication is accompanied by a Correction notice where the author of the study, Dr Littman, explains these revisions in more detail and provides further clarification regarding the study design and other concerns raised. To preserve the scientific record, the originally published paper is appended to the correction notice as a Supporting Information file. An accompanying Formal Comment by Dr Costa provides further context to the study, its aims, intentions, and its limitations. We are very grateful to Dr Romer and Dr Costa for their thoughtful consideration of the article and Dr Littman for constructively working with us to address the feedback.`  
    - [link](https://everyone.plos.org/2019/03/19/correcting-the-scientific-record-and-an-apology/)
- A 2019 Formal Comment on Littman 2018 by Costa found that,
    - `Evidence also points to a low correlation between parents' and children’ self-evaluation in several domains of mental health. For example, regarding quality of life, a systematic review verified that parent and children do not agree in the evaluation for children non-observable states (such as emotions). The authors point to the need for collecting information from both parts. The same seems to be true in the assessment of children’s anxiety. This discrepancy may be due to parental attribution bias in the recollection of children's medical history. Furthermore, parents’ biases may be enhanced in the presence of stress and psychological symptoms. Studies have shown that this could be the case for a good proportion of parents of gender-variant children and adolescents, who tend to present negative attitudes toward their offspring gender variation.`
    
    - `The level of evidence produced by the Dr. Littman’s study cannot generate a new diagnostic criterion relative to the time of presentation of the demands of medical and social gender affirmation. Several procedures still need to be adopted to generate a potential new subcategory of gender dysphoria that has not yet been clinically validated. One of these procedures is the assessment of mental health professionals trained according to the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH) and the American Psychological Association (APA) guidelines, interviewing not just the family, but the youth (longitudinally).` - [link](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/file?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0212578&type=printable) - Formal comment on: Parent reports of adolescents and young adults perceived to show signs of a rapid onset of gender dysphoria, Brandelli Costa, 2019
- A 2019 Methodological Critique on Littman 2018 by Restar found that,
    - `Littman (2018) also asked parents to perform two independent “diagnoses” of their child’s gender dysphoria using the DSM-5 criteria for gender dysphoria in (1) childhood and (2) in adolescence and adulthood (i.e., current age) (American Psychiatric Association, 2013); Littman also noted that the language for these measurements was simplified or adapted for parents. Littman neither provided examples of this simplified version of the DSM-5 nor offered evidence about whether best-practice methods for measure adaptation were used prior to administering the survey. These established methods include but are not limited to cognitive interviewing, confirmatory factor analysis, reliability and procedural validity, and diagnostic criterion validity; each of these methods enhances the likelihood that a newly adapted version of a diagnostic measure retains its original construct and validity`
    - `Part of the DSM-5’s diagnostic measurement for gender dysphoria also requires an evaluation of its association with clinically significant distress (American Psychiatric Association, 2013). Unless parents in this paper received formal training and have licenses to conduct clinical psychiatric diagnoses, parents enrolled were not qualified to classify any persons, including their children’s gender dysphoria. Gender dysphoria involves a formalized evaluation that has physical and psychological components, both of which are not easily observable unless one is formally trained (Coleman et al., 2012). As such, relying on parental-respondents’ accounts introduces a significant bias that affects their ability to “diagnose.” It has been previously suggested that parents are less capable of conceptualizing and interpreting their children’s emotional and physical experiences in a manner that is conducive to an observational report (Davis et al., 2007), such as an online survey.`
    - `A common error in reports of descriptive studies is overstepping the study design and data (Grimes & Schulz, 2002) and Littman’s (2018) paper, for reasons described in this critique, is an example of this fundamental error. Littman’s methodological flaws in the conceptualization and design of the study illustrate the importance of and need for more rigorous survey design and data analysis in descriptive studies. In the context of research with transgender people, who have historically been subjected to pathologizing research, flawed methodologies that lead to tenuous conclusions can have serious implications. While most science has limitations, researchers studying in the field of transgender health should strive to design their studies with appropriate, non-stigmatizing, and non-pathologizing research aims and methods that are grounded in the lived perspectives and experiences of transgender populations.` - [link](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s10508-019-1453-2.pdf) - Methodological Critique of Littman’s (2018) Parental-Respondents Accounts of “Rapid-Onset Gender Dysphoria”, Restar, 2020
- A 2020 Reply by Littman on Restar 2019 on Littman 2018 found that,
    - `Side-by-side comparisons demonstrate that the use of methodologies in Littman (2018) was consistent with those used elsewhere in the gender dysphoria research literature. It is plausible that the heated debate over the publication of Littman is less about the specifics of the methodology and more about the perception of the study’s findings as a threat to the continued use of the GAMC.` - [link](https://sci-hub.ee/https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10508-020-01631-z) - The Use of Methodologies in Littman (2018) Is Consistent with the Use of Methodologies in Other Studies Contributing to the Field of Gender Dysphoria Research: Response to Restar (2019), Littman, 2020
## Diaz et.al 2023
- [link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10508-023-02576-9)
- [link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10508-023-02635-1)
- [link](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s10508-023-02576-9.pdf)