
Anti-Realism in any regard Is an epistemic claim, this includes and is not limited to ontology, Morality, Science, and Maths topic belief on realism. Anti-realism is defined as there is no reason for belief in ‘x’ and ‘x’ meaning the specific topic of realism we want to talk about. Specifically epistemic realism refers to epistemic reasons for belief. Realism and epistemic conversations are usually entailed with negative arguments, This meaning that you argue from one position and show some internal inconsistencies making the alternative the only option.
Argument for Epistemic Realism:
- P1: If the epistemic anti-realist is right, then there are no epistemic reasons for belief,
- P2: If there are no epistemic reasons for belief, then there is no epistemic reason to believe the epistemic anti-realist,
- P3: So, either the epistemic anti-realist is wrong or there is no epistemic reason to believe the epistemic anti-realist,
- P4: So, we should reject the epistemic anti-realist theory,
- C1: So, the epistemic realist theory is true.
As stated by the argument above, it is logically impossible to argue from an epistemic anti-realist position As your worldview devolves into rejecting the position itself by Reductio ad Absurdum (a self-contradiction) and the only alternative is to accept realism.
Quote from Paul Boghossian in ‘Knowledge of Logic’, he writes:

`A related thought that is often mentioned in this connection has it that we can know that MPP (Modus Ponens) is truth‐preserving because we cannot conceive or imagine what a counter‐example to it might be. But the suggestion that ‘conceiving’ or ‘imagining’ is here the name for a non‐inferential capacity to detect logical, or other necessary, properties will not withstand any scrutiny. When we say that we cannot conceive a counter‐example to some general claim—for example, that all bachelors are unmarried—we do not mean that we have some imagistic, non‐propositional ability to assess whether such a case can be coherently described. What we mean is that a more or less elementary piece of reasoning shows that there cannot be any such state of affairs: if someone is a bachelor, then he is an unmarried male. If someone is an unmarried male, then he is unmarried. Therefore, any bachelor would have to be unmarried. So, there cannot be any such thing as an unmarried bachelor. Talk of ‘conceiving’ here is just a thin disguise for a certain familiar style of logical reasoning. This is not, of course, to condemn it. But it is to emphasize that its acceptability as an epistemology for logic turns on the acceptability of an inferential account more generally.`

Quote from Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, he writes:
	`If the receptivity of our mind, its power of receiving representations in so far as it is in any wise affected, is to be entitled sensibility, then the mind's power of producing representations from itself, the spontaneity of knowledge, should be called the understanding. Our nature is so constituted that our intuition can never be other than sensible; that is, it contains only the mode in which we are affected by objects. The faculty, on the other hand, which enables us to think the object of sensible intuition is the understanding. To neither of these powers may a preference be given over the other. Without sensibility no object would be given to us, without understanding no object would be thought. Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions without concepts are blind. It is, therefore, just as necessary to make our concepts sensible, that is, to add the object to them in intuition, as to make our intuitions intelligible, that is, to bring them under concepts. These two powers or capacities cannot exchange their functions. The understanding can intuit nothing, the senses can think nothing. Only through their union can knowledge arise. But that is no reason for confounding the contribution of either with that of the other; rather is it a strong reason for carefully separating and distinguishing the one from the other. We therefore distinguish the science of the rules of sensibility in general, that is, aesthetic, from the science of the rules of the understanding in general, that is, logic.`

