## Value of knowledge
Aristotle's view of knowledge was that it seems to be tied down and that knowledge that is came across by luck has a tendency to float away easier and faster than true knowledge. He gives an example of giving directions to a city where one person says when given the option of left and right `go left` and when asked why, they answer with `just a mere guess`. Have this compared to someone who answers the same but with better reasoning like `this is the road i took when going to the city`. In clearer terms, knowledge with good reasons can live up to scrutiny better than knowledge founded with luck as there is a more reliant path for justification to arise from when using a better form of knowledge.
Timothy Williamson's view of knowledge is `knowledge is resistant to misleading counter evidence` he gives an example of a burglar merely believing there's a diamond under the bed. Now this isn't knowledge of the diamond, just a mere belief this burglar has based on someone else telling them its location incorrectly. If they believe there's a diamond under the bed and find no diamond, they will retreat as there's no knowledge of the diamond, but if the burglar had knowledge of the diamond being where it was stated, the burglar would keep looking. This is an extension to aristotle's view of knowledge and again demonstrates the tied down nature knowledge requires to be knowledge.
What's come to be called the Meno problem is a problem in need of a solution. How can knowledge be more valuable than merely being confident in the truth when being confident in the truth leads to success when you act on it just as well as knowledge?