# 1956 Soviet Repression of Hungarian Revolution
- On 22 October 1956, The Hungarian Revolution of 1956 was a countrywide revolution against the government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Hungarian domestic policies imposed by the USSR. Initially anarchic, during the Hungarian Uprising the Hungarian people culminated in protests against domestic policies imposed by the USSR, and the people formed together in protest against the Soviet Union.
- A group of Hungarian students compiled a list of sixteen points containing key national policy demands. [link](https://sourcebooks.fordham.edu/mod/1956hungary-16points.asp)
- Following an anti-Soviet protest march through the Hungarian capital of Budapest, the students attempted to enter the city's main broadcasting station to read their demands on the air.
    - `the demonstrators made an organized attempt to assault the building and to force the broadcasting of their manifesto. A group of ten youths put the radio car into reverse and backed it repeatedly against the main gates. Some brought bricks from a nearby construction job and hurled them at the windows. Others tried to climb to the balconies, using the grillwork on ground-floor windows.` [link](https://ia802604.us.archive.org/0/items/thirteendaysthat007503mbp/thirteendaysthat007503mbp.pdf)
- The students were detained, and when people gathered outside the broadcasting station to call for their release, the state security police fired on the unarmed crowd, setting off the Hungarian Revolution of 1956.
    - `Soldiers posted in the corridors followed this action by fixing bayonets and hurling themselves against the people, shouting "Hajra" which is to say, "Let's go." They forced their way into the demonstrators at two points and succeeded in clearing the street directly before the building. Here the soldiers deployed into firing position. It was toward nine o' clock when the first shots were fired.` [link](https://ia802604.us.archive.org/0/items/thirteendaysthat007503mbp/thirteendaysthat007503mbp.pdf)
- The writers were giving up quickly. Gabor Tanesos, a Hungarian politician, said no progress (whatever it was he had in mind) could be made "while the guns are roaring." As early as the 25th, Gyula Hay, a Hungarian politician, stated "We must immediately revert to peaceful methods; fighting must stop immediately. Even peaceful demonstrations should not now be undertaken.” [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzaced3vz54mllwtcgqztvakdlfcwoyojy4eetxcnmbic7ksq2vhl3oh4?filename=William%20Lomax%20-%20Hungary%201956%20%28Motive%29-Allen%20and%20Busby%20%281976%29.pdf)
- As Soviet troops also came under attack in civilian quarters, they were unable to differentiate military from civilian targets. For that reason, Soviet tanks often crept along main roads and fired indiscriminately into buildings.
    - `The impression is gained that the Soviet troops avoided a systematic hunting down of secondary targets, such as snipers, in the belief that complete order would shortly be restored. When that proved not to be the case, Soviet tanks began to move again along the main boulevards, firing indiscriminately into houses to strike fear into the people and to force their surrender. This shooting caused severe damage to buildings on the boulevards and along the side streets, even where there had been no recent resistance by the freedom fighters.` [link](http://mek.oszk.hu/01200/01274/01274.pdf)
- The USSR repressed the Hungarian Revolution on 4 November 1956, and fought the Hungarian revolutionaries until 10 November, repression of the Hungarian Uprising killed around 2,500 Hungarians and 700 Soviet Army soldiers, and compelled 200,000 Hungarians to seek political refuge abroad.` [link](https://ia802604.us.archive.org/0/items/thirteendaysthat007503mbp/thirteendaysthat007503mbp.pdf)
    - `Some 200,000 Hungarians left their country between the outbreak of the Revolution on October 23, 1956 and April 1957` [link](https://ahea.pitt.edu/ojs/index.php/ahea/article/view/261/432)
    - `The number of people who died in the fighting, according to this source, can be estimated at some 1,800-2,000 in Budapest and 2,500-3,000 in the whole country.` [link](http://mek.oszk.hu/01200/01274/01274.pdf)