- The Basel Program was the first manifesto of the Zionist movement, drafted between 27-30 August 1897 and adopted unanimously at the First Zionist Congress in Basel, Switzerland.
- The
	- `Eventually, however, the Zionist societies were persuaded that there was no credible alternative, no program better than Herzl's, and no leader better than the journalist from Budapest. Reluctantly they decided to play ball. Unlike the leaders of Western Jewry, prominent Eastern European Jews agreed to attend the First Zionist Congress, the forum chosen by Herzl for launching the movement to realize his goals, after his failure to mobilize the Western magnates. The Zionist Organization, which was to serve as the movement's core and motor, was founded, under Herzl's orchestration, at the congress convened in Basel on August 29, 1897. It was attended by 200 to 250 delegates from twenty-four countries, with representatives of the Hovevei Zion societies predominating. There were speeches, debates, and arguments, anger and exultation, before the formula of a "home" (or "homestead"—Heimstatte) for the Jewish people in Palestine was adopted as the goal of Zionism. The final phrasing was arrived at only after bitter quarrels. But in the end, under Herzl's guidance, the delegates decided to avoid the term "Jewish state" so as not to antagonize the Turks, the Russians, and other gentiles.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- On 30 August 1897, the Zionist Congress agreed the the Basel Program creating the first formulation for the Zionist state in Palestine.
	- `The three days of deliberations laid, in Herzl’s words, “the foundations of the edifice that is one day to house the Jewish People.” The First Congress can indeed be credited with a number of significant accomplishments. The World Zionist Organization was founded. Its program was concisely formulated and presented in the declaration known as the Basel Program: “Zionism seeks to establish for the Jewish People a publicly recognized, legally secured home in Palestine.”” The Hatikva was chosen as the national anthem, and the blue and white flag emblazoned with a Star of David as the national flag.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
	- `Zionism aims at establishing for the Jewish people a publicly and legally assured home in Palestine. For the attainment of this purpose, the Congress considers the following means serviceable:`
	  `1. The promotion of the settlement of Jewish agriculturists, artisans, and tradesmen in Palestine.`
	  `2. The federation of all Jews into local or general groups, according to the laws of the various countries.`
	  `3. The strengthening of the Jewish feeling and consciousness.`
	  `4. Preparatory steps for the attainment of those governmental grants which are necessary to the achievement of the Zionist purpose.` - [Basel Program](https://azm.org/basel-program-1897/)
- The
	- `Immediately after the conclusion of the Congress, on September 3, 1897, Herzl wrote in his diary: "Were I to sum up the Basel Congress in a word... it would be this: At Basel I founded the Jewish State.... Perhaps in five years, and certainly in 50, everyone will know it."` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)