- The Uganda Scheme was a proposal by British Colonial Secretary Joseph Chamberlain to create a Jewish homeland in a portion of British East African, now modern day Kenya.
- On 13 April 1903, Chamberlain proposed the Uganda plan to Herzl after a similar plan in Cyprus and the Sinai Peninsula fell through.
	- `Herzl left Egypt, discouraged by the prospect of yet another failure. At this Juncture Chamberlain presented him with the following proposal: "On my travels I saw a country for you. Uganda. On the coast it is hot, but in the interior the climate is excellent for Europeans. You can plant cotton and sugar. I thought to myself, that is just the country for Dr. Herzl. But he must have Palestine and will move only into its vicinity."` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- On 18 April 1903, the Kishniev Pogrom in Czarist Russia killed 45 jews in 2 days of violence, as well as other anti-Jewish creating the desire for a stopgap measure before they settled in Palestine.
    - `On April 18, 1903, five days prior to Chamberlain's offer of Uganda, disaster struck the thriving Jewish community of Kishinev in Russia. With the tacit consent and encouragement of the Russian authorities, a pogrom of unprecedented savagery took place in the city. Blaming the death of a Russian boy on the Jews — even though the boy's uncle had openly confessed to the crime — government officials incited the inhabitants to take bloody revenge for the presumed ritual murder. On Easter Sunday the attack was unleashed on the Jews. For twenty-four hours the mobs murdered, raped, and pillaged without police interference, leaving 45 Jews dead, 600 seriously wounded, and 1,500 houses plundered and destroyed. Horrendous stories of barbarity were related by Russian witnesses.
      
      `As a result of the Kishinev pogrom, and a series of other pogroms which followed in Russia, Herzl considered Chamberlain's offer of Uganda. He felt the Zionist movement could not stand idly by at such a time of national crisis, when Jewish men were castrated, women's breasts cut off, and babies' heads smashed against stones. "We must give an answer to Kishinev and this is the only one." Herzl was ready to accept the Uganda Plan.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- On 14 August 1903, Sir Clement Hill, Superintendent of African Protectorates wrote to L. J. Greenberg.
    - `Mr. Chamberlain communicated to the Marquess of Lansdowne the letter which you addressed to him on the 13th ultimo containing the form of an agreement which Dr. Herzl proposes should be entered into between His Majesty's Government and the Jewish Colonial Trust Ltd. for the establishment of a Jewish settlement in East Africa.`
      
      `His Lordship has also had under his consideration the remarks made by you on 6th Just, on the occasion of your interview in this office with Sir E. Barrington and Mr. Hurst.`
      
      `I am now directed by His Lordship to say that he has studied the question with the interest which His Majesty's Government must always take in any well-considered scheme for the amelioration Of the position of the Jewish Race. The time at his disposal has been too short to enable him to go fully into the details of the plan or to discuss it with His Majesty's Commissioner for the East Africa Protectorate, and he regrets that he is therefore unable to pronounce any definite opinion in the matter.`
      
      `He understands that the Trust desire to send some gentlemen to the East Africa Protectorate, who may ascertain personally whether there are any vacant lands suitable for the purposes in question and, if this is so he will be happy to give them every facility to enable them to discuss with His Majesty's Commissioner the possibility of meeting the view which may be expressed at the forthcoming Zionist Congress in regard to the conditions upon which a settlement might be possible.`
      
      `If a site can be found which the Trust and His Majesty's Commissioner consider suitable and which commends itself to His Majesty's Government, Lord Lansdowne will be prepared to entertain favourably proposals for the establishment of a Jewish colony or settlement on conditions which will enable the members to observe their National customs. For this purpose he would be prepared to discuss (if a suitable site had been found and subject to the views of the advisers Of the Secretary of State in East Africa) the details of a scheme comprising as its main features: the grant of a considerable area of land, the appointment of a Jewish Official as chief of the local administration, and permission to the Colony to have a free hand in regard to municipal legislation and as to the management of religious and purely domestic matters, such Local Autonomy being conditional upon the right of His Majesty's Government to exercise a general control.`
      
      `There is no need at present to consider the details of the terms upon which the land would be granted, whether by sale or lease, but His Lordship assumes that no portion Of the administrative expenses of the settlement would fall on His Majesty's Government, and the latter would reserve power to reoccupy the land if the settlement should not prove a success.`
      
      `I am, Sir. Your most obedient humble servant` - [L. J. Greenberg Letter from Sir Clement Hill](https://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/images/uganda.jpg)
  - After Herzl was convinced of the idea of the Uganda Plan, calling the area prospective land Little Palestine, opponents of the plan portrayed it as a betrayal of the Basal Program arguing that it would stall or stop the goal of founding a state in Palestine.
    - `Herzl was anxious not to insult a Great Power by showing ingratitude to Great Britain for her generosity. He felt that the capacity of the World Zionist Organization to negotiate would be seriously impaired should the Congress choose to reject the proposal. Acceptance of the offer, by contrast, would encourage international recognition of the World Zionist Organization as the official representative of world Jewry. While pledging loyalty to Zion, Herzl saw the benefit of a “Little Palestine” (as he was ready to call Uganda) as a place to fall back upon in case of need such as overpopulation, even after the return to the Land of Israel.
      
      `The opponents of the plan argued that its acceptance constituted a betrayal of the Basle Program, for the fulfillment of which the Zionist movement had been created. A temporary expedient would be misleading to the Great Powers and the rest of the world, and would not attain the overriding goal of the World Zionist Organization. They further claimed that the business of the Zionist movement was not to alleviate suffering, but to concentrate on the attainment of the ultimate objective. Support for Uganda would only create an illusion and would divert energy from the main purpose, removing desperately needed funds from the movement.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- This spilt the Zionist Organisation into two factions, the territorialist minority and Zionists of Zion majority.
    - `The proposal sparked a major controversy within the movement, ultimately splitting it into two factions: a "territorialist" minority, who favored (against the backdrop of renewed pogroms in Russia) accepting any territory anywhere for the establishment of a Jewish commonwealth and haven, and the "Zionists of Zion who would accept nothing but Palestine. Crucially, the Russians themselves, led by the young Chaim Weizmann, rejected "Uganda."` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- On 3 July 1904, Theodor Herzl died of a heart ailment at the age of 43.
    - `Driving himself relentlessly, despite his fragile health, Herzl burnt himself out in the service of the cause. He took no compensation for his Zionist labors, while at the same time neglecting all his private affairs, including his journalistic career. Whatever money he possessed was spent on the movement, and he began supporting his wife and two children on borrowed funds. The idea of the Jewish state had become an obsession. For its sake Herzl forfeited family, home, and friends.`
      
      `The bitter disappointment of the Sixth ““Uganda’ Congress seemed to have sapped Herzl’s last vestige of willpower and strength. He persisted, however, in attending several audiences with the Italian king and the Austrian foreign minister. In June 1904, totally exhausted, he was taken to the resort town of Edlach, near Vienna, where he died on July 3, at the age of 43. With his death, all contention and strife were forgotten. He was mourned by the entire Jewish world.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- By July 1905, the Seventh Zionist Congress formally rejected the plan, which was already dead.
    - `The rupture that came about at the Sixth Zionist Congress in 1903 was not healed after Herzl’s death. Even though the Uganda proposal was withdrawn by the British and rejected by the Seventh Zionist Congress of 1905, the rift continued to deepen. Led by the famous English writer Israel Zangwill, a Territorialist group had formed ready to look for territory which could be obtained by negotiations, and for which a charter could be received. Members of the group asserted that Palestine is presently beyond reach, and that to continue to demand it under prevailing conditions would be unrealistic.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)