- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pogroms_in_the_Russian_Empire)
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kiev_pogrom_(1881))
- The
	- `On March 13, 1881, a band of young Russian revolutionaries assassinated Czar Alexander II, unleashing a wave of political unrest. Anti-Semites spread the rumor that the assassins were Jews (in fact, only one was). A wave of pogroms swept the empire, particularly the Ukraine, where mobs pillaged and destroyed Jewish neighborhoods, beating, raping, and killing the inhabitants. Moshe Leib Lilienblum (1843-1910), who was to emerge as a major Zionist ideologue, spent May 1881 cowering with his family in a cellar in Odessa. His diary entries afford a glimpse of the terror that gripped the millions of Jews in the Pale of Settlement:`
	  
	  `May 5: The situation is terrible and frightening! We are virtually under siege. The courtyards are barred up, and we keep peering through the grillwork to see if the mob is coming to swoop down on us.... We all sleep in our clothes and without bedding ... so that if we are attacked we will immediately be able to take the small children ... and flee. But will they let us flee? ... Will they have mercy on the youngsters? ... How long, O God of Israel?`
	  
	  `May 7: The rioters approached the house I am staying in. The women shrieked and wailed, hugging the children to their breasts, and didn't know where to turn. The men stood by dumbfounded. We all imagined that in a few moments it would be all over with us.`
	  
	  `But Lilienblum was fortunate: In Odessa, soldiers intervened, frightening off the rioters` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `The pogroms were followed by a series of laws and edicts institutionalizing discrimination against Jews, including the numerus clausus, restricting their entry into secondary schools and universities, hampering them from practicing law, and clamping down on their freedom of movement and residence. In 1891-92, about twenty thousand Jews were expelled from Moscow. The cumulative effect of the destruction of property and the discriminatory edicts was the rapid pauperization of the empire's Jewish communities, which had not been prosperous to begin with.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `The pogroms had a dramatic, vital impact on East European Jewry, even before Pinsker explained their deep historical meaning and offered his solution. Many, at first in a slow trickle, then in a veritable flood tide, reacted with their feet. Unorganized, undirected, the Jews of the Pale of Settlement began to emigrate. It was a sporadic, instinctive response to oppression and violence and the threat of more to come. There was no organized communal response and no way to organize one. But all, or at least most, seemed to understand what history was telling them: Jewish life in Russia was no longer tenable.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `Russian Jewry began to make tracks primarily toward the United States; by 1914 approximately 2.5 million were to reach the shores of America. Tens of thousands headed for South America and the British dominions, primarily Canada, South Africa, and Australia. Hundreds of thousands more settled in the cities and towns of central and Western Europe. An infinitely smaller number, more or less simultaneously and initially without coordination, responded to events by setting up in the cities and towns of the Pale and Poland clandestine societies of Hovevei Zion (Lovers of Zion), with the aim of emigrating to Palestine or supporting such emigration. Only a very small minority of Eastern Europe's Jews turned to Zionism, and only a fraction of these actually headed for the Holy Land; this was to remain the situation for decades thereafter.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)