- Between 1881 and 1903, The First Aliyah was a major wave of Jewish Immigration to Ottoman Syrian. Jews who migrated in this wave came mostly from Eastern Europe and from Yemen.
	- `By 1881, on the eve of the start of the Zionist Jewish influx, Palestine's population was 457,000—about 400,000 of them Muslims, 13,000-20,000 Jews, and 42,000 Christians (mostly Greek Orthodox). In addition, there were several thousand more Jews who were permanent residents of Palestine but not Ottoman citizens.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `By 1881 a third of Palestine's population was urban—up from only 22 percent in 1800. Most of the Jews and Christians lived in the towns, making their relative weight there decidedly greater than in the country as a whole. By 1880 Jerusalem's population numbered 30,000, of whom about half were Jews; Gaza's population was 19,000, Jaffa's 10,000, and Haifa's 6,000.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `One of the societies, set up by students in St. Petersburg, stated that "every son of Israel who admits that there is no salvation for Israel unless they establish a government of their own in the Land of Israel can be considered a member." A group that originated in Kharkov, called the Bilu, which was to leave an enormous stamp on the Zionist enterprise during the following half century, declared in its founding manifesto: "[The Jews have been] sleeping and dreaming the false dream of assimilation.... Now, thank God, thou art awakened.... The pogroms have awakened thee.... We want... a home in our country ... it is ours as registered in the archives of history...." The manifesto vaguely suggested that the Jewish settlers might "help our brother Ishmael [i.e., the Arabs] in his time of need." It also stated that the Biluim aimed to establish in Palestine "a state within a larger [Ottoman] state." A later charter of the association, from 1884, spoke of the need for all male members of Bilu to learn the use of firearms ("very necessary for those inhabiting countries of the East").`
	  
	  `Fourteen Biluim set out on June 30, 1882, bent at once on "self-redemption" and on national renaissance, through settlement and physical labor in the Land of Israel. Although only fifty or sixty Biluim were to reach Palestine by the end of 1884, they were showing the way. Indeed, they succeeded in establishing at the heart of Zionism what one historian called the "mystique of the pioneer." In July 1882 the first Biluim began working in Palestine as agricultural laborers. In 1884 they set up their own settlement, Gedera, next to the Arab village of Qatra (often, new Zionist settlements retained an approximation of the Arabic name of their sites, much as many Arab place names were derivatives of original Biblical Hebrew names).`
	  
	  `Groups of Hovevei Zion began arriving in Palestine in spring 1882. That year the movement established several agricultural settlements, including Rishon Le-Zion, Rosh Pina, and Zikhron Ya'akov, and reestablished Petach Tikva, which had been founded by Jews from Jerusalem in 1878 but then abandoned. A second bout of settlement activity took place around 1890. By 1891 the dozen or so "New Yishuv" settlements had a combined population of less than 2,5OO. Hovevei Zion's activities came to be known as "practical" Zionism—that is, realization of the dream by day-to-day, dunam-by-dunam settlement of Palestine.`   - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `All in all, the movement succeeded in dispatching to Zion in the so-called First Aliyah ("ascension," or wave of immigration to Palestine), between 1881 and 1903, twenty to thirty thousand people, many of whom eventually returned to Russia or headed for the West. They set up nearly two dozen settlements. And, helped by major Western Jewish philanthropists, the movement managed to purchase, by 1890, about 100,000 dunams of Palestine land, and about 200,000 by 1900.`
	  
	  `Most of the settlements were fairly quickly overtaken by financial difficulties. But Rothschild, an ardent Zionist, was persuaded to provide assistance, and he carried the new settlements (except Gedera) and others set up later in the 1880s and 1890s until they became more or less self-supporting or found alternative funding.`
	  
	  `Having launched the Jewish settlement of Palestine, however, Hovevei Zion failed to arouse, mobilize, and launch world Jewry, or even the mass of Eastern European Jewry, toward the shores of the Holy Land. By the mid 1890s the various societies of Hibbat Zion were in decline. Most eventually joined the Zionist Organization, established by Theodor Herzl toward the end of the decade.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `The Zionists established ten settlements in Palestine during the 1880s, six in the south (Rishon Le-Zion, Ness Ziona, Ekron, Gedera, Be'er Tuviya, and the reestablished Petach Tikva) and four in the north (Zikhron Ya'akov, Rosh Pina, Yesod HaMa'ala, and Bat Shlomo); in the 1890s, another seven were added in the north (Hadera, Shfeya, 'Ein Zeitim, Sejera, Metulla, Mishmar HaYarden, and Mahanayim) and three in the south (Rehovot, Motza, and Hartuv).` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `The Ottoman authorities kept close tabs on Zionist activities both within the empire and in Europe, especially Russia. On April 28, 1882, even before the first Biluim set sail for Palestine from Odessa, the Turkish consul general there posted an announcement declaring that no one would be permitted to settle in Palestine. The same day that the first group of fourteen Biluim embarked at Constantinople for Jaffa, June 29, 1882, the governor of Jerusalem was ordered to bar Russian, Rumanian, and Bulgarian Jews from landing in Jaffa and Haifa. On July 1 the governor was ordered to bar Jewish settlement. The following year he was instructed to stop the sale of state lands to Jews, even if they were Ottoman citizens.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The Arab-Jewish relations during this time were strained mainly by historic conditions of the Ottoman and Russian Empires, conflicting interests and the goals of the two populations, not .just by cultural differences. The difference in goals being that the Arabs wanted to maintain the Muslim character of the region as opposed to the Jews that was to settle on as much land as they could to lay a claim for a Jewish Homeland.
	- `There was of course another, equally important, side to the coin. The settlers lived in perpetual fear of attack by their employees inside the moshavot or by Arabs from outside. Like white colonists everywhere, they felt perpetually threatened by the surrounding mass, and they were a minority exploiting and occasionally displacing a native population. Moreover, the Arabs often enjoyed the sympathy, if not the backing, of the Ottoman officials and police. They had the right to bear arms and knew how to use them better than did most Jews. The settlers, who regarded Arabs as hot-tempered, naturally violent, and lawbreaking, often feared to fire them lest they be provoked to violence. And dependent as the Jews were on Arab labor, they could not afford to alienate the workers.`
	  
	  `But the major cause of tension and violence throughout the period 1882—1914 was not accidents, misunderstandings, or the attitudes and behaviors of either side, but objective historical conditions and the conflicting interests and goals of the two populations. The Arabs sought instinctively to retain the Arab and Muslim character of the region and to maintain their position as its rightful inhabitants; the Zionists sought radically to change the status quo, buy as much land as possible, settle on it, and eventually turn an Arab-populated country into a Jewish homeland.`   - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- Morris lists some quotes from Zionist leaders of the time showcasing their original intentions with the First Aliyah.
	- `For decades the Zionists tried to camouflage their real aspirations, for fear of angering the authorities and the Arabs. They were, however, certain of their aims and of the means needed to achieve them. Internal correspondence among the olim from the very beginning of the Zionist enterprise leaves little room for doubt. Vladimir (Ze'ev) Dubnow, one of the Biluim, wrote to his brother, the historian Simon Dubnow, in October 1882: "The ultimate goal ... is, in time, to take over the Land of Israel and to restore to the Jews the political independence they have been deprived of for these two thousand years The Jews will yet arise and, arms in hand (if need be), declare that they are the masters of their ancient homeland." (Dubnow himself shortly afterward returned to Russia.)`
	  
	  `Ben-Yehuda, who settled in Jerusalem in September 1881, wrote in July 1882 to Peretz Smolenskin in Vienna: 'The thing we must do now is to become as strong as we can, to conquer the country, covertly, bit by bit .... We can only do this covertly, quietly.... We will not set up committees so that the Arabs will know what we are after, we shall act like silent spies, we shall buy, buy, buy."`
	  
	 `In October 1882 Ben-Yehuda and Yehiel Michal Pines, who had arrived in Palestine in 1878, wrote to Rashi Pin, in Vllna:`
	 
	 `'We have made it a rule not to say too much, except to those ... we trust.... The goal is to revive our nation on its land ... if only we succeed in increasing our numbers here until we are the majority [Emphasis in original].... There are now only five hundred [thousand] Arabs, who are not very strong, and from whom we shall easily take away the country if only we do it through stratagems [and] without drawing upon us their hostility before we become the strong and populous ones.'` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The Arabs in the area over time started to become fearful of the changing situation, going from small crimes of theft to new settlements to the rise of Arab Nationalism in a decade.
	- `The Arabs, both urban and rural, gradually came to feel anxiety and fear. Acute Jewish observers began to sense the changing mood. Ahad Ha'Am, after his visit in 1891, wrote prophetically: "If a time comes when our people in Palestine develop so that, in small or great measure, they push out the native inhabitants, these will not give up their place easily."`
	  
	  `Initially opposition to the arrival of the "new Jews" took relatively primitive and benign forms: theft and vandalism against outlying settlements, with the colonists tending to attribute the incidents to local, specific causes and grievances and usually failing to discern a "national" or even regional pattern. But within a decade Arab resentment also found an organized, "national" or proto-national expression.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- Jews in 1883 originally had policy’s to prevent Arab workers in the Jewish settlements and instead demanded Hebrew Labor but this changed by 1894 where the Olim (people of the aliyah) were in need of help with their farming, bringing in Arabs from surrounding areas and them residing in the settlements. the reversal of the Hebrew Labor policy's were in large part down to economic decisions in the settlements with worries of raising wages to a point of the response of aggression leading to a new policy of living with and in peace with the Arab inhabitants.
	- `The Biluim charter of 1883 had declared that the newly acquired lands would be cultivated "without the help of... native Arab inhabitants." Ussishkin demanded "Hebrew labor" and the replacement of Arab workers by Jews as early as 1890, more than a decade before the Second Aliyah. But the first olim, relatively few in number, needed help. They little about agriculture and based their farms on orchards, groves, and vineyards, which required large numbers of field hands, especially at harvest time. When the neighboring villagers were insuffcient, Arabs, families in tow, were brought in from far afield, and resided in shanties inside the settlement. They made do with low wages because their standard of living was low and because they relied for their basic subsistence on plots of land they owned or tenanted elsewhere; for many, employment in the colonies meant extra income.`
	  
	  `The Arabs were hardy and usually docile. Jewish workers were more expensive, inexperienced, weaker, and often insubordinate. So, despite what some leaders and charters said, during the first decades of settlement most laborers in the moshavot were Arabs. Reality forced Jewish colonial society to reject "Hebrew labor" in all but a few sites and so, to some degree, did the posture of the official Zionist leadership. Dr. Arthur Ruppin (1876—1943), who headed the Palestine Office of the Zionist Organization, wrote: "Though we must, of course, think first of giving work and bread to our own poorer brethren, we must avoid anything that may resemble exclusion of Arabs." Pushing the drive for "Hebrew labor" to extremes would, he felt, raise wages to unacceptable levels and alienate the Arabs, who would "respond with aggression." A pragmatist, Ruppin believed that the settlers must live in peace, "and if possible in friendship," with their neighbors.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)