- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Der_Judenstaat)
- [The Jewish state, Theodor Herzl](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/63e00eeb55ece71cc0dc63e3/t/654184d9ad047a58af45697b/1698792668549/142536285-The-Jewish-State-By-Theodor-Herzl.pdf)
- On 14 February 1896, Der Judenstaat, German for `The State of the Jews`, commonly rendered as `The Jewish State` is a pamphlet written by Theodor Herzl and published in Leipzig and Vienna by M. Breitenstein's Verlags-Buchhandlung.
	- `He set out his analysis of the situation in a prophetic, programmatic thirty thousand-word pamphlet, Der Judenstaat (translatable as The Jews' State or The Jewish State), subtitled "An Attempt at a Modern Solution of the Jewish Question," which appeared in 1896.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `Herzl regarded Zionism's triumph as inevitable, not only because life in Europe was ever more untenable for the Jews, but also because it was in Europe's interest to be rid of the Jews and relieved of anti-Semitism: The European political establishments would eventually be persuaded to promote Zionism. Herzl recognized that anti-Semitism could be harnessed to his own—Zionist—purposes.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- Herzl’s Pamphlet was more widely discussed after his death with unfavorability deeming it to be a possible driver of Anti-Semitism, It is subtitled with "Versuch einer modernen Lösung der Judenfrage" ("Proposal of a modern solution for the Jewish question") and was originally called "Address to the Rothschilds", as Herzl planned to deliver it as a speech to the Rothschild family. Baron Edmond de Rothschild rejected Herzl's plan, feeling that it threatened Jews in the Diaspora.
	- `Reactions to The Jewish State were at first not very encouraging. Herzl had intended the book as a speech he would give to the Rothschild family of philanthropists. But Baron Edmond de Rothschild, supporter of Hovevei Zion settlements in Eretz Yisrael, rejected Herzl's plan, feeling that it threatened Jews in the Diaspora, whose patriotism would now be questioned. He also thought it put his own settlements at risk.`
	  
	  `The publisher of Herzl's newspaper also felt that the book's arguments would support anti-Semitic claims that Jews could never be assimilated. The newspaper ignored the book and, in fact, never printed the word "Zionist" until it published Herzl's obituary in 1904. Other newspapers gave the book unfavorable reviews.` - [Great Jewish thinkers: their lives and work, Naomi Pasachoff](https://archive.org/details/greatjewishthink0000pasa/page/96/mode/2up)