- The Second Aliyah took place between 1904 and 1914, during which approximately 35,000 Jews immigrated into Ottoman Syria (later British Palestine) mostly from Russia, some from Yemen.
- The Second Aliyah is said to have started because of the death of Herzl and the desire to prove the Zionist movement wasn’t dead, according to David Ben-Gurion.
    - `The Second Aliyah started in 1904, the year of Herzl’s death. David Ben-Gurion maintained that there was a close link between the demise of the great leader and the new wave of aliyah. Many young people wanted to prove, he claimed, that the passing of the leader did not signal the death of the idea. The only way to do this was through personal aliyah.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- Another reason was a second wave of Russian Pogroms.
    - `The Zionist movement, which grew rapidly in the years after Basel, received a major boost in 1903-6 from a second wave of Russian pogroms far more vicious than those of the 1880s. The new assaults were a by-product of the grievances and turmoil surrounding the Revolution of 1905, as the Czarist regime tried to thwart the revolutionaries by diverting popular attention and anger from the monarchy to the Jews. A particularly severe jolt was administered by the first pogrom, in Kishinev, on Passover (April 19-20) 1903, when the mobs slaughtered forty-nine people, injured and mutilated hundreds more, and destroyed approximately fifteen hundred Jewish homes and shops. The assaults intensified in 1905, against the backdrop of the Russo-Japanese War and accusations that the Jews were fomenting revolution. The most severe outbreaks—in part organized by government officials and the secret police occurred in November following the Czar's promise of civil liberties and the establishment of a parliament (duma). There were hundreds of pogroms, in Ukraine, Poland, and Lithuania, leaving altogether about eight hundred Jewish dead; in the worst, in Odessa, about three hundred people died and thousands were wounded. (A third wave of pogroms, during 1917-21, concurrent with the Russian Revolution and the civil wars and mostly carried out by White Russian forces, claimed perhaps as many as sixty thousand lives.)`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
    - `The pogroms of 1903-06 were a major precipitant of the Second Aliyah, the next wave of Jewish emigration to Palestine. The first pogrom was a turning point: Before, it seemed, Jews accepted slaughter as their fate; after Kishinev they rebelled. No longer would they accept death, beatings, rape, and pillage without resistance. Among a growing militant minority, the rage that had built up over decades, indeed centuries, exploded. Impotence would be replaced by action. Jews would no longer rely on king, baron, or policeman for protection; these had persuasively demonstrated their indifference or malevolence, and could not be trusted. Jews had to protect themselves and their own; at the very least they had to defend or assert their honor and go down fighting.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The goals of this Aliyah were similar to the first in regards to the labor markets being exclusively Jewish and being self sufficient.
    - `The objectives of this Aliyah were determined by the resolution of the immigrants to break with the past and build a new society. The Second Aliyah sought to create a Jewish working class that would live on the wages it earns, without exploiting the labor of others. This definition covers three basic principles of the pioneers: to abandon middle-class existence and become a productive Jewish labor force; to live on their own earnings without recourse to philanthropy and any outside help; to extend help to others, whenever needed, but with no strings attached, and without exploitation.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- Immigrants from the First Aliyah were still giving preference of work to Arabs over Jews making the newcomers reticent to stay and there was a phenomenon of people arriving and quick leaving within a matter of months.
    - `The obstacles were so great that eight out of ten immigrants fled the country within a few months after arrival. The difficulties were psychological as well as economic and ideological. Even though the immigrants did not expect to find bands playing and banners waving upon their arrival, their expectations did not even remotely match the stark reality.
      
      `They were derided by earlier arrivals for foolishly coming to the Land, when they could have gone to America. They thought that friends present in the port had come to bid them welcome, while in reality they were just waiting, bitterly disillusioned, for the next boat to take them out of the country.
      
      `After a brief overnight stay in Jaffa, the new arrivals were ready and eager for work and willingly offered their services to the Jewish farmers. But the former members of Chovevei Zion and BILU, who had become prosperous land owners, would not have them. They seemed to be condemned to slow starvation.
      
      `The newcomers expected that the Jewish farmers would offer them employment — not as a matter of charity (which they did not want) — but as an honest opportunity granted a struggling brother who could soon prove the value of his labor. The Jewish landowners, however, gave preference to the Arab workers and refused to hire Jews.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- In 1906, David Ben-Gurion immigrated to Ottoman Syria during this time.
    - `David Green (later known as David Ben-Gurion), who came to the shores of the Land in 1906, headed inland on the very day of his arrival. He was not the only one to react in this manner to the noises, odors, and abuses of the city. The first stop, of course, was one of the nearby settlements built by the Choyevei Zion or BILU in the 1880’s. Young David headed for Petach Tikvah.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- On 11 April 1909, Tel Aviv, the currently internationally recognised capital of Israel was founded.
    - `A year later the residents of the new suburb chose the name Tel Aviv for the development project. The name, meaning “hill of spring.’’ symbolized hope and renewal. It is mentioned in the book of Ezekiel as one of the thriving Jewish communities on the river banks of Babylon. More significantly, however, the residents wished to demonstrate their identification with the dream of Herzl, whose Utopian book Old-New Land had been translated into Hebrew by Nachum Sokolov and given the title Tel Aviv. Herzl’s book envisions a thriving, industrious, orderly, and cultured community which is precisely what the founders were hoping to build.
      
      `None of the founders could anticipate the phenomenal growth of the city, which rapidly turned into the largest commercial, industrial, and cultural center of the country, the first all-Jewish metropolitan city in modern times. The city attracted among its early residents such illustrious personalities as Chaim Nachman Bialik, the greatest Hebrew poet of the modern era and Achad ha-Am, the founder of Spiritual Zionism. Its first mayor was Meir Dizengoff, a man of great administrative ability and fine business acumen who brought unusual prosperity to Tel Aviv.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)
- The
	- `Periodically egging on the central government were Ottoman officials in Palestine—many of whom were Arabs—and the local population. A dialectic soon developed, in which Arab protests prompted Constantinople to clamp down on the Jews, and the resulting restrictions reinforced Arab antagonism and belligerence. Occasionally officials went out of their way to incite Palestinians against the Zionists, as was the case with the kaymakam of Nazareth, during a land dispute at Fula in 1910-11 or the kaymakam of Tiberias, who in 1910 reportedly told local Arab leaders: "The Jews are traitors, and every act of violence committed against them is a patriotic act."`
  
	  `Between the spring of 1909 and 1911, six Jews were murdered by Arabs in the Tiberias area—but no one was convicted. (By comparison, when Arabs murdered a Christian German settler in Haifa in 1910, within months one was sentenced to death and several others were sent to prison.) The Arabs understood the signals. When Arab bands pillaged two Jewish settlements after a guard at Merhavia killed an Arab during an attack, the authorities looked on impassively, although the guard and ten other Jews who had nothing to do with the Arab's death were arrested. Seven of them spent eleven months in jail without trial.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)   