- On 23 July 1908, The Young Turk Revolution was a constitutionalist revolution in the Ottoman Empire. The Committee of Union and Progress (CUP), an organization of the Young Turks movement, forced Sultan Abdul Hamid II to restore the 1876 Ottoman Constitution and recall the parliament, which ushered in multi-party politics within the Empire.
    - `During May 1908 some officers, fearing imminent discovery by palace agents, decided on action. Several had fled to the Macedonian hills by early July; there they raised the standard of revolt. Within weeks the revolt spread throughout the army and spilled over into the civilian population of the region. During the third week of July 18,000 troops were transported from loyalist Anatolia to suppress the uprising, but immediately defected and went over to their comrades-in-arms. Now the officers proclaimed the 1876 Constitution in various areas of Macedonia and issued an ultimatum to the Istanbul government for its general restoration. The palace vacillated for a few days and, on July 23rd, capitulated. Streets quickly filled with a joyous citizenry ("whose social composition is not indicated), linking arms in brotherhood and shouting " liberty, egalite, fraternite. " In the view of our first group of authors, whose interpretations usually mirror those of the officers themselves, this was the Young Turk Revolution of 1908` - [The 1908 Young Turk Revolution: Old and New Approaches, Quataert, 1979](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1017/s002631840000691x)
- The
	- `The Arab national movement emerged onto the stage of history—although it was not to attain center stage until the Twenties and Thirties—in the wake of the July 1908 revolution of the Young Turks' Movement, which reintroduced the 1876 constitution, freedom of the press, and the Ottoman parliament. In the Arab world, according to a British resident of Syria, there was "universal rejoicing. Muslims were seen embracing Christians and Jews, and inviting one another to receptions and feasts. The pent-up feelings of the populace everywhere burst forth in loud hurrahs in the public streets. Syria has never seen such rejoicing. The Golden Age seemed to be dawning." There were festive rallies and mass meetings in Beirut, Damascus, Haifa, and Jerusalem, though in Palestine the a 'yan—linked by tradition and financial benefit to the Hamidian regime—were far from enthusiastic.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The    
	- `Some nationalists feared that the revolution, with its promise of liberalization, might erode the incentive and impetus for Arab liberation and independence. But the Golden Age failed to dawn. Certainly, the 260-man parliament duly reconvened in Constantinople in December, with sixty Arab and 140 Turkish delegates, though the Arabs believed that they were more numerous, by a ratio of 3:2, in the empire than the Turks. (Estimates of the Turkish-Arab ratio in the population vary radically, from 7.5:10.5 million to 12.5:5.3.) Altogether the parliament had 214 Muslims, forty-two Christians, and four Jews. Arab hopes for equality and autonomy were soon dashed. The Young Turks appeared as keen as Abdiilhamid to maintain the empire's integrity and to ensure Turkish dominance. A process of Turkification was set in motion: Many Arab officials were replaced by Turks; and Turkish, promoted as the only language of government and the courts, was made compulsory in all schools. An anti-Arab atmosphere suffused the regime. Indeed, leading CUP members in private correspondence wrote derogatorily of the Arabs, one calling them "the dogs of the Turkish nation." The revolution in Constantinople provoked a counterwave of Arab nationalist feeling and paved the way for its organized political expression by allowing a relatively free press and the establishment of political groups. The governor of Jerusalem, 'Ali Akram Bey, warned that local notables would exploit the new freedom for anti-Ottoman purposes: "The promulgation of the constitution and its implementation slowly began to awaken feelings of independence among the Arabs. Though this idea remains for the time being secret and covert, to judge by all that is happening here, [in] the press and other manifestations, one can feel that the tendencies of the populace in all of [Greater] Syria are heading that way."`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)