- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Fatat)
- On 14 November 1909,
	- `Among the more important Arab nationalist or autonomy-inclined parties to emerge after the revolution were the Ottoman Party for Administrative Decentralization, founded in Cairo at the end of 1912 and known as the Decentralization Party; and the secret Society of the Young Arab Nation, founded in Paris on November 14, 1909, known as al-Fatat. The former-founded by Syrian, Lebanese, and Palestinian emigres, both Muslim and Christian, against the backdrop of Ottoman defeat in the Balkan Wars and the loss of Libya to Italy—established secret branches in Damascus, Beirut, Nablus, and Jaffa, and sought the subdivision of the empire into autonomous entities along national-ethnic lines. In part it was motivated by the empire's increasing weakness and a fear that its Arab provinces might be taken over by European powers. The political platform declared: "The best sort of regime is constitutional and the best sort of constitutional regime is decentralized." At the start of World War I the party halfheartedly tried to foment anti-Ottoman rebellions in Lebanon and the Persian Gulf, without success.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `The creation of al-Fatat was triggered by a street incident in Istanbul four days after the promulgation of the Young Turks' constitution. Two Arab students, Ahmad Qadri of Damascus and 'Awni 'Abd al-Hadi of Nablus, heard a Turkish officer denouncing "Arab traitors" who had supported the ancien regime. Why wasn't he also denouncing the many Turks who had supported Abdiilhamid? the two Arabs asked. An argument ensued and the students concluded that the Arabs needed a secret society like that of the Young Turks to obtain equal rights within the empire. What emerged was al Fatat. Two of its founding members, 'Abd al-Hadi and Rafiq al-Tamimi (also of Nablus), were to play prominent parts in the Palestinian Arab national movement. All were of Greater Syrian origin, and all were Muslims The society initially aimed at preserving the "natural rights" of the Arab nation rather than Arab independence, Arab-Turkish equality within the empire rather than secession. But by 1913 leading members were defining its platform as "the liberation of the Arab nation."`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)    