- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arab_Congress_of_1913)
- On
	- `In June 1913 the reformist societies organized the First Arab Congress in Paris. The idea was to publicize Arab grievances in the West and apply indirect pressure on the Turks to agree to reform. Twenty-three delegates—eleven Muslims, eleven Christians, and one Jew—and about 150 observers met in the auditorium of the French Geographical Society and called not for separation but for "political rights" for the Arabs; "decentralized administration" in the Arab provinces; "foreign [non-Ottoman] advisers" for an autonomous Lebanon; and Arabic to be used—alongside Turkish—in the Ottoman parliament and as an official language in the Arab provinces.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `The congress caught the Turks at a particularly difficult moment: The empire had lost Libya to Italy (1912), had just lost the First Balkan War to the Greek-Bulgarian-Serbian-Montenegrin coalition (Treaty of London, May 30, 1913), and was fighting off a renewed challenge in the Balkans (the Second Balkan War would begin on June 29). The grand vizier, Mahmud Shawkat, had been assassinated a week before the congress began. To no avail, Constantinople had attempted to pressure France to cancel the congress. It then mounted an unsuccessful campaign of propaganda and intimidation against the prospective delegates. Constantinople decided to stymie the Arab challenge through appeasement. Senior Ottoman officials traveled to Paris in July and hammered out a compromise with the delegates: "recognition" of Arab rights and the need for reforms; service by Arab soldiers near home; Arabic to be the language of instruction in schools in the Arab districts; and more Arab senior officials in the Constantinople bureaucracies. But these provisions were never put into effect. "A piece of chicanery" was how the first historian of the Arab awakening described the Turkish promises.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `It is difficult to categorize the Arab societies and political groupings that emerged before World War I according to Western definitions. Were they nationalist? Of the twenty-odd groups described and analyzed by Israeli historian Eliezer Tauber, only five included the word "Arab" in their names. Most did not aspire to secession, independence, or statehood. They wanted equal rights—cultural, economic, social, and occasionally political—and, perhaps, autonomy. Even the First Arab Congress of 1913 did not aim for secession or statehood.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)