- On 28 January 1915 - 4 February 1915, The Raid on the Suez Canal, took place when a German-led Ottoman Army force advanced from Southern Palestine to attack the British Empire-protected Suez Canal, marking the beginning of the Sinai and Palestine Campaign of World War 1.
- On 28 January 1915, Turkish forces were spotted not far from the stationed British forces along the Suez Canal.
	- `On 28 January, British aircraft located a Turkish force of up to 4,000 men some eight miles east of Deversoir (in the central sector), which confirmed the British view that the main Turkish attack would fall in the centre, probably in the area between Serapeum (four miles south of Lake Timsah) and El Ferdan (seven miles north of Ismailia). This warning gave the British time to reinforce the trenches on the key sections of the west bank, drawing on reserves which had been assembled close to the canal. British and French warships entered the canal and took up their stations.` - [The Last Crusade: The Palestine Campaign in the First World War, Anthony Bruce](https://archive.org/details/lastcrusadepales0000bruc/mode/2up?view=theater)
- On 1 February 1915, the first shots were fired from the British to the Turkish forces.
    - `On 1 February, HMS Clio opened fire on enemy units in the desert east of El Ferdan.
      
      `By the beginning of February, some 15,000 Turkish troops had passed along the central Sinai route and arrived in the Ismailia area. They had been served well by their Bedouin guides and not a single Turkish soldier (or animal) lost his life. As elsewhere on the canal, the great majority of the British defending force was entrenched on the west bank, but defensive positions had also been built on the east side. In the central sector, there were five such posts, each manned by two companies of Indian infantry. On the west bank, between Lake Timsah and the Great Bitter Lake, there were twelve posts, each manned by two platoons. Each platoon was responsible for the defence of about 600 yards of canal frontage. These defensive arrangements were supported by a reserve of three companies, based at Serapeum, and two gun batteries.` - [The Last Crusade: The Palestine Campaign in the First World War, Anthony Bruce](https://archive.org/details/lastcrusadepales0000bruc/mode/2up?view=theater)
- On 3 February 1915, the raid on the Suez Canal begins.
    - `The sandstorm continued into the night and only in the early hours of 3 February could the Turkish assault on the canal begin. British troops at an observation post at Tussum provided the first evidence of the final preparations for an enemy attack. At 3.25 a.m., members of the Turkish 25th Division, an Arab unit, passed southeast of the post in the direction of the canal, apparently in relatively good order at this point. Not long after Turkish troops had been observed at Tussum, the British saw the enemy making its first attempt to cross the canal. In the words of the official historian, ‘dark masses were discerned moving slowly down the gullies on the east bank towards the water. Presently these masses were discovered to be pontoons and rafts carried by squads of men.’` - [The Last Crusade: The Palestine Campaign in the First World War, Anthony Bruce](https://archive.org/details/lastcrusadepales0000bruc/mode/2up?view=theater)
- The Ottoman Suez Expeditionary Force suffered the loss of some 1,500 men including 716 prisoners and the British had a low casualty rate due to the Turkish attempts of surprising the British failing by being spotted early by HMS Clio.
    - `British inaction gave the Turks time to consider their next move. Although they had suffered the loss of some 1,500 men, including 716 taken prisoner, their 10th Division remained unscathed. However, morale had undoubtedly been damaged by the failure of their first operation to make any impact either on the canal or its defences. Nor was there any sign of a popular response to the invasion within Egypt itself, and it was evident that no assistance from that direction could be expected in the future. Without such popular support, the wider objectives of the invasion could not be achieved, given the marked imbalance in strength of the opposing forces. In his account of the Sinai campaign, Kress claimed that
      
      `'Djemal Pasha had expected that his appearance on the canal would be followed by a rising of the Egyptian nationalists. In this hope he was deceived. There remained, however, an attainable goal, to force his way suddenly astride the canal, hold the crossing for a few days, and in that time close the canal permanently.'  
      
      `However, without the element of surprise, even this more limited objective remained beyond the Turkish army’s grasp.` - [The Last Crusade: The Palestine Campaign in the First World War, Anthony Bruce](https://archive.org/details/lastcrusadepales0000bruc/mode/2up?view=theater)
- On 3 February 1915, The Commander-In-Chief of the Ottoman-Turkish Forces in the Syria and Palestine regions orders a retreat of the forces to prevent further casualties.
    - `Djemal Pasha, commander-in-chief in Syria and Palestine, had accompanied the invasion force to the canal and it was he who, on 3 February, decided that an orderly withdrawal was all that could now be achieved. Although he had little talent as a soldier, he was realistic enough to recognize that renewing the attack could result in the complete destruction of the Turkish force and a further heavy blow to Turkish prestige. The only consolation for the Turks was the fact that the invasion force had been able to disengage without difficulty and return to its forward base without any interference by the British.` - [The Last Crusade: The Palestine Campaign in the First World War, Anthony Bruce](https://archive.org/details/lastcrusadepales0000bruc/mode/2up?view=theater)
- Attempts to minimize the loss of the raid were attempted by the Turks and Germans by trying to redefine the purpose for the raid on the Suez Canal.
    - `Later the Turks and their German allies would try to minimize the stated purpose of the expedition, claiming that it was no more than a reconnaissance or an attempt to destroy part of the fabric of the canal. Even if such rationalizations are accepted, the methods employed were hardly equal to the task. For reasons that are not clear they used their weaker division in the attack and kept the stronger 10th Division in reserve. (This latter division was used at no time during the invasion.) Moreover their diversionary actions to the north and south were weak and unconvincing, and failed to draw British troops away from the main expected area of attack. The Turks were thus obliged to face the full strength of the defending forces when they attacked the British centre. The results, according to Yigal Sheffy, a specialist in the history of military intelligence, were fatal to the Turkish cause:
      
      `”Had Cemal [Djemal Pasha] implemented the principle of force optimization by bringing in the sizeable force available in the rear, invested his better trained troops in the first wave, and pressed the defenders on the flanks, he would have had a much better prospect for securing the east bank opposite Serapeum and establishing a beachhead on the west bank.” 
      
      `Given that the capture of the canal was possibly the most valuable contribution it could have made to the cause of its allies, it seems likely that the Turkish army’s half-hearted attack with insignificant numbers had a wider political explanation.` - [The Last Crusade: The Palestine Campaign in the First World War, Anthony Bruce](https://archive.org/details/lastcrusadepales0000bruc/mode/2up?view=theater)