- On 3 January 1916, The Sykes-Picot Agreement was a secret treaty between the United Kingdom and France, with assent from the Russian Empire and the Kingdom of Italy, to define their mutually agreed spheres of influence and control in an eventual partition of the Ottoman Empire.
- The agreement was based on the premise that the Triple Entente would achieve success in defeating the Ottoman Empire during World War I and formed part of a series of secret agreements contemplating its partition. The primary negotiations leading to the agreement took place between 23 November 1915 and 3 January 1916, on which date the British and French diplomats, Mark Sykes and François Georges-Picot, initialled an agreed memorandum. The agreement was ratified by their respective governments on 9 and 16 May 1916.
    - `It is accordingly understood between the French and British governments:
      
      `That France and Great Britain are prepared to recognize and protect an independent Arab states or a confederation of Arab states (a) and (b) marked on the annexed map, under the suzerainty of an Arab chief. That in area (a) France, and in area (b) Great Britain, shall have priority of right of enterprise and local loans. That in area (a) France, and in area (b) Great Britain, shall alone supply advisers or foreign functionaries at the request of the Arab state or confederation of Arab states.
      
      `That in the blue area France, and in the red area Great Britain, shall be allowed to establish such direct or indirect administration or control as they desire and as they may think fit to arrange with the Arab state or confederation of Arab states.
      
      `That in the brown area there shall be established an international administration, the form of which is to be decided upon after consultation with Russia, and subsequently in consultation with the other allies, and the representatives of the Shereef of Mecca.
      
      `That Great Britain be accorded (1) the ports of Haifa and Acre, (2) guarantee of a given supply of water from the Tigres and Euphrates in area (a) for area (b). His Majesty's government, on their part, undertake that they will at no time enter into negotiations for the cession of Cyprus to any third power without the previous consent of the French government.
      
      `That Alexandretta shall be a free port as regards the trade of the British empire, and that there shall be no discrimination in port charges or facilities as regards British shipping and British goods; that there shall be freedom of transit for British goods through Alexandretta and by railway through the blue area, or (b) area, or area (a); and there shall be no discrimination, direct or indirect, against British goods on any railway or against British goods or ships at any port serving the areas mentioned.
      
      `That Haifa shall be a free port as regards the trade of France, her dominions and protectorates, and there shall be no discrimination in port charges or facilities as regards French shipping and French goods. There shall be freedom of transit for French goods through Haifa and by the British railway through the brown area, whether those goods are intended for or originate in the blue area, area (a), or area (b), and there shall be no discrimination, direct or indirect, against French goods on any railway, or against French goods or ships at any port serving the areas mentioned.
      
      `That in area (a) the Baghdad railway shall not be extended southwards beyond Mosul, and in area (b) northwards beyond Samarra, until a railway connecting Baghdad and Aleppo via the Euphrates valley has been completed, and then only with the concurrence of the two governments.
      
      `That Great Britain has the right to build, administer, and be sole owner of a railway connecting Haifa with area (b), and shall have a perpetual right to transport troops along such a line at all times. It is to be understood by both governments that this railway is to facilitate the connection of Baghdad with Haifa by rail, and it is further understood that, if the engineering difficulties and expense entailed by keeping this connecting line in the brown area only make the project unfeasible, that the French government shall be prepared to consider that the line in question may also traverse the Polgon Banias Keis Marib Salkhad tell Otsda Mesmie before reaching area (b).
      
      `For a period of twenty years the existing Turkish customs tariff shall remain in force throughout the whole of the blue and red areas, as well as in areas (a) and (b), and no increase in the rates of duty or conversions from ad valorem to specific rates shall be made except by agreement between the two powers.
      
      `There shall be no interior customs barriers between any of the above mentioned areas. The customs duties leviable on goods destined for the interior shall be collected at the port of entry and handed over to the administration of the area of destination.
      
      `It shall be agreed that the French government will at no time enter into any negotiations for the cession of their rights and will not cede such rights in the blue area to any third power, except the Arab state or confederation of Arab states, without the previous agreement of his majesty's government, who, on their part, will give a similar undertaking to the French government regarding the red area.
      
      `The British and French government, as the protectors of the Arab state, shall agree that they will not themselves acquire and will not consent to a third power acquiring territorial possessions in the Arabian peninsula, nor consent to a third power installing a naval base either on the east coast, or on the islands, of the red sea. This, however, shall not prevent such adjustment of the Aden frontier as may be necessary in consequence of recent Turkish aggression.
      
      `The negotiations with the Arabs as to the boundaries of the Arab states shall be continued through the same channel as heretofore on behalf of the two powers.
      
      ` It is agreed that measures to control the importation of arms into the Arab territories will be considered by the two governments.
      
      ` I have further the honor to state that, in order to make the agreement complete, his majesty's government are proposing to the Russian government to exchange notes analogous to those exchanged by the latter and your excellency's government on the 26th April last. Copies of these notes will be communicated to your excellency as soon as exchanged. I would also venture to remind your excellency that the conclusion of the present agreement raises, for practical consideration, the question of claims of Italy to a share in any partition or rearrangement of Turkey in Asia, as formulated in article 9 of the agreement of the 26th April, 1915, between Italy and the allies.
      
      `His Majesty's government further consider that the Japanese government should be informed of the arrangements now concluded.` - [Sykes-Picot Agreement](https://avalon.law.yale.edu/20th_century/sykes.asp)
- The agreement, along with others, was made public by the Bolsheviks in Izvestia and Pravda in Moscow on 23 November 1917 and repeated in The Manchester Guardian (now The Guardian) on 26 November 1917.
    - `The Bolshevik Government revealed full texts in Izvestia and Pravda on November 23, 1917 and subsequently the Manchester Guardian printed the texts on November 26, 1917.` - [International Boundary Study, Jordan – Syria Boundary, No. 94 - December 30, 1969](https://web.archive.org/web/20150706091130/http://archive.law.fsu.edu/library/collection/LimitsinSeas/IBS094.pdf)
    - `Russia and secret treaties. Terms Published
      
      `Trotsky, Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, has published a series of secret telegrams and documents, dating partly from the year 1915 and partly from the time of the Ministerial Coalitions. In those relating to Constantinople and the Straits. M. Sazonoff, then Minister for Foreign "Affairs, expresses Russia's claims to Constantinople, the west coast of the Bosphorus, the Sea of Marmora and the Dardanelles, Southern Thrace up to the Enos-Midia line, the Asiatic coast and the islands of the Sea of Marmora, and the islands of Imbros and Tenedos.
      
      `The Allies put forward a series of claims, to which the Russian Government consented. According to these demands Constantinople was to become a free port for goods neither going to nor coming from Russia. The Allies further demanded the recognition of their rights over Asiatio Turkey, as well as the preservation of the sacred places in Arabia under Mussulman sovereignty, and the inclusion of the neutral zone in Persia within the sphere of British activity.
      
      `Russia was prepared to recognise all these demands, and on her side expressed the desire that the Khalifate should be separated from Turkey. In Persia Russia bargained tor the retention by herself of "Rayons-' (settlements) in the towns of Ispahan and Yerd.
      
      `As regarded the future frontiers of Germany, the two sides agreed that full freedom of action should be granted.` - [The Manchester Guardian on 26 November 1917](https://www.newspapers.com/image/258479434/?clipping_id=29761209&fcfToken=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJmcmVlLXZpZXctaWQiOjI1ODQ3OTQzNCwiaWF0IjoxNzAwNDExMTgxLCJleHAiOjE3MDA0OTc1ODF9.KGoe__u5RuwunsUmRBauQQZ0XtFuA5pk9V0Zr3FzWSs)