- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arab_Revolt)
- [Wiki](https://archive.org/details/lastcrusadepales0000bruc/mode/1up?view=theater)
- On 10 June 1916 – 25 October 1918,
	- `the British set about elsewhere fomenting and assisting revolt in the Ottoman rear; the Hejaz, in Arabia, not Lebanon, was to be the focus of British interest. Clandestine contacts between the British and the Hashemite emir of Mecca, Sharif Hussein, and his son, the emir Abdullah, had begun even before the declaration of war. The Sharifians, for their part, established covert contacts with nationalists in Damascus and Beirut. During the following two years the negotiations inched forward, with the Arabs demanding, and the British accepting, the principle of Arab independence in at least part of the crumbling empire.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- On 10 June 1916, the Arab revolt started as planned in the McMahon-Hussein Correspondence.
    - `On June 10, 1916, the revolt broke out in Mecca, backed by British and French arms, subsidies, and advisers (of whom the most prominent was to be T. E. Lawrence, "Lawrence of Arabia"). The revolt was seen by the British as mortally subverting Ottoman efforts to turn the war in the East into an anti-Christian jihad (Islamic holy war) and as a complement to an Allied military thrust from Egypt up the Mediterranean coast toward Turkey.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The
	- `From the beginning of the war, the Turks had feared a revolt and fifthcolumn activities by Arab nationalists in Damascus and Beirut. At first they tried to conquer Egypt; failing in this, they tried to ward off British counterthrusts toward Palestine and Syria. In 1915-16 Jamal Pasha, commander of the Ottoman Fourth Army and military governor of the Greater Syria region, instituted a reign of terror in which dozens of Arab nationalists were publicly hanged in Damascus and Beirut and hundreds were arrested. Thousands more Palestinian Arabs (as well as Jews) were deported inland, away from the centers of subversion and from likely axes of Allied invasion (and all this even before any concrete anti-Ottoman subversion had taken place). Additional thousands died of disease and starvation, in part as a result of the Ottoman military requisitioning of crops. These events naturally served to intensify Arab nationalist and separatist aspirations. The Turks gradually came to be seen as a vicious (and increasingly weakened) enemy.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)