- In March - April 1917, The Tel Aviv and Jaffa deportation was the evacuation of 10,000 people from Jaffa, including Tel Aviv, by the authorities of the Ottoman Empire in Palestine. This was a reaction to the First & Second Gaza Battles and the Jewish inhabitants possibly assisting the British forces.
- The Commander-In-Chief of the Ottoman-Turkish Forces in the Syria and Palestine regions was possibly concerned about Jewish inhabitants assisting the British forces. The Yishuv organised a crisis committee to help reduce the possible catastrophe with the deportation and has been attributed to reducing the human toll.
    - `At the end of March 1917, on the threshold of the Pesach festival, the Jewish community of Tel Aviv and Jaffa was ordered to evacuate their homes. Fully one-fifth of the evacuees perished, owing to the difficult conditions of the transfer. Djemal Pasha justified the order by the threat of British naval attacks on the community. Since no similar orders were issued to Haifa or Beirut, it is probable that he was concerned with the assistance the Jews would offer the already advancing British troops. The vicious and ruthless manner in which the order was carried out exemplify Djemal Pasha’s attitude towards his subjects.
      
      `When the extent of the economic depression and political oppression was realized, a “‘crisis-relief committee’ was formed in Jaffa headed by Meir Dizengoff, the mayor of Tel Aviv. Various emergency measures were taken to relieve the widespread suffering and hunger. Public kitchens were established, all available land was sown for additional food, and the communities of the Galilee and Samaria — which were relatively mildly affected — were asked to share their produce with their less fortunate brethren.
      
      `The committee was also active in minimizing the anguish of the banished foreign nationals. Often family members became separated at the point of departure, and not even the committee’s good offices, contacts, and bribes could influence sadistic officials to permit their reunion. The evacuation of Jaffa and Tel Aviv would have been even more costly in terms of human lives, were it not for the efforts of Dizengoff and his committee who organized the evacuation in an orderly manner.` - [In the shadow of the struggle, Ervin Birnbaum](https://archive.org/details/inshadowofstrugg0000birn/mode/1up?view=theater)   
- New Historian Tom Segev wrote a piece for Haaretz in 2009 on the deportation.
    - `In the spring of 1917, roads in the south of the country overflowed with tens of thousands of refugees. The Turks who then ruled the land had expelled them from Gaza. It happened after the British had twice failed in their attempts to conquer Gaza. Moshe Smilansky, a farmer and writer who wandered a good deal among the Arabs, saw the waves of refugees and described them in his journal: "All of them bear the mark of hunger, fear and disaster." The disaster was not theirs alone, he wrote: "A terrible panic befell not only the residents of Gaza, but the entire land." Because, he maintained, the authorities intended to resettle some of the Arab refugees in communities belonging to the Jews: "We were very fearful about these guests, because of the overcrowding, lack of cleanliness, and disruption of the usual order. But still we took comfort in this - better that they expel the Arabs to us than that they should expel us to them," Smilansky observed. Little did he know.
      
      `A few weeks later, the residents of Jaffa and Tel Aviv were also forced to leave their homes; some of them found shelter among Arabs.
      
      `Around 50,000 people lived in Jaffa at that time, including some 10,000 Jews; nearly 2,000 Jews lived in the adjacent garden suburb, Tel Aviv. The authorities claimed they had to vacate Jaffa for their own protection. The military governor of the country was Cemal Pasha, one of the leaders of the Young Turk movement, who is also known as the mastermind behind the Armenian genocide. As with the expulsion of the civilian population from Gaza, the authorities claimed that Jaffa's evacuation was necessary to protect the residents, ahead of the British invasion. "You cannot fight for a city to the sound of women screaming and children crying," Cemal Pasha explained.
      
      `A foreign diplomat stationed in Jerusalem at the time offered the view that the authorities were hostile to the Jews of Jaffa and Tel Aviv, and would take advantage of the evacuation to harm the Zionists. He was right: Only a few Jewish youths were given permission to remain in the city to safeguard the houses. All the rest were forced to get out.
      
      `A deathly silence
      
      `The evacuation took about two weeks. It began in an orderly fashion, but rapidly descended into chaos. A local reporter described a confused mob of people, horses and mules, and piles and piles of belongings. Men, women and children were stretched out over their bundles, waiting outside day and night for their turn, until a cart would arrive to collect them. Wagon after wagon departed, numbering in the hundreds: wagons laden with household wares and carpets, heavy furniture and even pianos; wagons full of Torah scrolls from the synagogues; and wagons carrying wheat and other foodstuffs. They left behind them a long trail of animal excrement. Moshe Smilansky saw a baby carriage hitched to a donkey and driven by two children.` - [When Tel Aviv was a wilderness, Tom Segev](https://web.archive.org/web/20090523225936/http://tlv100.haaretz.com/news.asp?p=497)    