## How we Gain Knowledge
### Rationalism and Empiricism
Kant's problem with Rationalism and Empiricism - [[link]](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/rationalism-empiricism/)
G.W. Leibniz claimed that we could only have objective knowledge of the world uncontaminated by the point of view of any observer, a form of mind-independent objectivism. Leibniz belonged to the school of thought generally labeled ‘rationalist’ thought. Rationalism derives all claims to knowledge from the exercise of reason, and purports to give an absolute description of the world, uncontaminated by the experience of any observer. Leibnitz believed that the understanding contains within itself certain innate principles, which it knows intuitively to be true, and which form the axioms from which a complete description of the world can be derived
David Hume claimed that we could only have objective knowledge of nothing, essentially nihilism. Hume’s scepticism caused Kant some concerned things like Causality and A Priori Knowledge. Hume belonged to the school of thought generally labeled ‘empiricism’ thought. Empiricism argues that knowledge comes through experience alone; there is, therefore, no possibility of separating from the subjective condition of the knower.
Kant's response gave an answer to the question of objective knowledge that was neither as absolute as Leibnitz nor as subjective as Hume’s
### The Problem with Cogito Ergo Sum
‘Cogito Ergo Sum’ meaning ‘I think, Therefore I am’ has been expressed in many ways, Bertrand Russell highlights Descartes' service to philosophy as that of illustrating that "subjective things are the most certain." In his critique of the ‘First Principle’ Descartes holds in Russells book, ‘Problems of Philosophy’. This statement posed by Descartes wouldn't be problematic if it was regarded as just another belief but its use as a foundational principle causes some misuse of philosophy. The ‘Cogito’ shows that there is a thought, but not that there is an ‘I’ who thinks it. Kant, similarly dissatisfied with Descartes’ argument, and with the doctrine of the soul that flowed from it, felt that the certainty of self-knowledge had been wrongly described. It is true that, however sceptical I may be about the world, I cannot extend my scepticism into the subjective sphere (the sphere of consciousness): so I can be immediately certain of my present mental states. But I cannot be immediately certain of what I am, or of whether, indeed, there is an ‘I’ to whom these states belong. These furter propositions must be established by argument and had yet to be found. This is what Kant attempted to make in his first Critique of Pure Reason.
Søren Kierkegaard calls the phrase a tautology in his Concluding Unscientific Postscript. He argues that the cogito already presupposes the existence of "I", and therefore concluding with existence is logically trivial. Kierkegaard's argument can be made clearer if one extracts the premise "I think" into the premises "'x' thinks" and "I am that 'x'", where "x" is used as a placeholder in order to disambiguate the "I" from the thinking thing. Here, the cogito has already assumed the "I"'s existence as it thinks. For Kierkegaard, Descartes is merely "developing the content of a concept", namely that the "I", which already exists, thinks. As Kierkegaard argues, the proper logical flow of argument is that existence is already assumed or presupposed in order for thinking to occur, not that existence is concluded from that thinking. This concludes that ‘Cogito Ergo Sum’ as an epistemic principle is flawed but holding as a normal conceptual belief is merely a tautology.