[Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Hezbollah_headquarters_strike)

- On 27 September 2024, Hassan Nasrallah, the secretary-general of Hezbollah, was assassinated in an Israeli airstrike in Beirut. The strike took place while Hezbollah leaders were meeting at a headquarters located underground beneath residential buildings in Haret Hreik in the Dahieh suburb to the south of Beirut. Conducted by the Israeli Air Force using F-15I fighters, the operation involved dropping more than 80 bombs, including US-made 2,000-pound bunker buster bombs, destroying the underground headquarters as well as nearby buildings.
- On 28 September 2024, the IDF announced the death of Hassan Nasrallah.
	- `Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of the terrorist army Hezbollah, was killed by the Israel Defense Forces in a precise strike in Beirut last night, while he was in Hezbollah’s Central Headquarters commanding more imminent attacks against the people of Israel.`
	  
	  `For decades, Hezbollah, under the command of Hassan Nasrallah, orchestrated countless attacks against innocent people. Hassan Nasrallah had the blood of thousands of men, women and children on his hands. Israelis. Jews across the world. Lebanese. Americans. British. French. Syrians and other countless victims across the Middle East and beyond.`
	  
	  `Hezbollah, under the command of Hassan Nasrallah, joined Hamas in attacking Israel on October 8th...just one day after Hamas‘s massacre on October 7th.` - [Site Unreachable](https://www.idf.il/en/mini-sites/israel-at-war/briefings-by-idf-spokesperson-rear-admiral-daniel-hagari/september-24-press-briefings/press-conference-by-idf-spokesperson-radm-daniel-hagari-september-28-2024/)
- The strike was unannounced due to an historical analogue of an attempt to strike Nasrallah before in the [2006 Lebanon War](2006%20Lebanon%20War,%20Israel-Hezbollah%20War) on 14 July 2006, in which the area planned to be struck was given 24 hour notice of the strike taking place giving Nasrallah and other Hezbollah officials time to be positioned in a more protective condition.
	- `Four members of the forum voted in favor of bombing Dahia (Shimon Peres, who was not present, telephoned his support). Two ministers, Dichter and Livni, were opposed. The military benefits of the bombing were marginal. Nasrallah, ensconced in a bunker beneath his residence, was protected by enough layers of cement to avoid injury. But Dahia was a symbol, and Israel’s ministers and officers wanted a move that would deliver a painful surgical blow to Hezbollah’s strength and honor. Although this was not specifically stated at the meeting, some participants realized that an attack on Dahia presaged all-out war against Hezbollah. The idea of “bang and it’s over” increasingly receded.` - 34 days: Israel, Hezbollah, and the war in Lebanon, Amos Harel & Avi Isacharoff, 2008
