[Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Lebanon_pager_explosions)
- On 17-18 September 2024, thousands of handheld pagers and hundreds of walkie-talkies intended for use by Hezbollah exploded simultaneously across Lebanon and Syria in an Israeli attack. 
- As of 20 September 2024, 3,500 were wounded and 42 people had died including at least 12 civilians according to the Lebanese Health Ministry
	- `In total, 42 were killed and almost 3,500 wounded by the blasts, according to Lebanon’s ministry of health.` - [‘We are isolated, tired, scared’: pager attack leaves Lebanon in shock, The Guardian, 2024](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/sep/20/we-are-isolated-tired-scared-pager-attack-leaves-lebanon-in-shock)
- In February 2024, Hezbollah's secretary-general at the time, Hassan Nasrallah, instructed the group's members to use pagers instead of cell phones, claiming Israel had infiltrated their cell phone network.
	- `Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah had called on his fighters a few months ago to stop using smartphones because Israel has the technology to infiltrate those devices, Khodr said.`
	  
	  `“So now they’ve resorted to this different communications system using pagers, and it seems they have been penetrated,” she said.` - [Nine killed, 2,750 wounded across Lebanon as Hezbollah pagers explode, Al Jazeera, 2024](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2024/9/17/dozens-of-hezbollah-members-wounded-after-pagers-explode-in-lebanon)
- Hezbollah then purchased Gold Apollo AR924 pagers about five months before the explosions.
	- `Footage posted on social media claiming to show examples of the explosions from around the country depict blasts that seemed too large to come from pager batteries alone. One photo circulating widely appeared to show a mangled pager with some legible make and model information that may point to the Gold Apollo AP-900 alphanumeric pager. Other reports indicate the pager model is the Gold Apollo AR-924, which has a lithium-ion battery.`
	  
	  `The AP-900 runs on two AAA batteries, which, like any battery, could be induced to explode, but likely not with such force and scale as the explosions depicted in alleged videos of the blasts. If the pagers used by Hezbollah are the AR-924 or another model that runs on lithium-ion batteries, which can cause more dangerous explosions, it’s still unlikely that a regular pager battery alone could produce blasts that could injure multiple people.`
	  
	  `“Those explosions aren’t just batteries,” says Jake Williams, vice president of research and development at Hunter Strategy who formerly worked for the US National Security Agency. “Based on the reporting, these pagers were likely interdicted by Israeli authorities and modified with explosives. This highlights the risks of supply chain security, especially in places where technology is harder to ship to.”` - [The Mystery of Hezbollah’s Deadly Exploding Pagers, WIRED, 2024](https://www.wired.com/story/pager-explosion-hezbollah/)
- The Israeli intelligence agency (Mossad) had secretly manufactured the devices, integrated the explosive material Pentaerythritol tetranitrate into the devices, and sold them to Hezbollah through a shell company.
	- `Even before Mr. Nasrallah decided to expand pager usage, Israel had put into motion a plan to establish a shell company that would pose as an international pager producer.`
	  
	  `By all appearances, B.A.C. Consulting was a Hungary-based company that was under contract to produce the devices on behalf of a Taiwanese company, Gold Apollo. In fact, it was part of an Israeli front, according to three intelligence officers briefed on the operation. They said at least two other shell companies were created as well to mask the real identities of the people creating the pagers: Israeli intelligence officers.`
	  
	  `B.A.C. did take on ordinary clients, for which it produced a range of ordinary pagers. But the only client that really mattered was Hezbollah, and its pagers were far from ordinary. Produced separately, they contained batteries laced with the explosive PETN, according to the three intelligence officers.`
	  
	  `The pagers began shipping to Lebanon in the summer of 2022 in small numbers, but production was quickly ramped up after Mr. Nasrallah denounced cellphones.` - [How Israel Built a Modern-Day Trojan Horse: Exploding Pagers, The New York Times, 2024](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/18/world/middleeast/israel-exploding-pagers-hezbollah.html)