- In 1992, between 2 March and 1 July 1992, Russia lead in creating a breakaway state away from Moldova.
- Russian forces were decisive in the conflict as the 2 primary parties military forces weren't at a effective capacity.
    - `Neither side had a proper military force. The intervention of the Russian Fourteenth Army and its commander General Alexander Lebed on behalf of the Transdniestrians was decisive.` - [Uncertain Ground - Engaging With Europe’s De Facto States and Breakaway Territories, Thomas De Waal, 2018](https://carnegieendowment.org/files/deWaal_UncertainGround_final.pdf)
    - `Bender, primarily inhabited by russians, had joined the separatist movement, but the Moldovan police was still holding out at installations inside the city. the battle began on 19 June when the 14th russian army provided armored vehicles for the separatists to capture the last remaining Moldovan police station in Bender. In reaction to this loss, the Chisinau government, sensing that the decisive battle was about to take place, rushed large Moldovan reinforcements to the city, and soon they had recaptured most of Bender. this response was too much for the commander of the 14th army General Yuri netkachev, who ordered russian troops to drive out the Moldovan forces. the 14th army had always supported the separatists since the very beginning, but this direct support was the first open participation in combat. and in a reflection of the chaos in Moscow after the fall of the Soviet Union, the russian general took the decision on his own.`
      
      `The participation of the 14th army was indispensable for the victory of the separatists, because the russian troops tilted the balance of power away from the more numerous Moldovans. the 14th army was also notable as being the only instance when the forces of the former Soviet Union fought against the centrifugal forces that Gorbachev had unleashed. and similarly to what happened in other conflicts in the “near abroad,” volunteers from russia flocked to fight on the side of the separatists.` - The Russian Military Resurgence: Post-Soviet Decline and Rebuilding, 1992-2018, Rene De La Pedraja, 2018
    - `The Moldovans made one last effort to field an army for the final assault on Bender in order to divide transnistria in half and finish its conquest. Moldovan forces were concentrated in a forest near Bender, and lebed decided to stop their advance by relying on his powerful artillery. at 0300 on 3 July massive barrages rained down on the unsuspecting Moldovans who had not expected this hail of fire. the shelling killed at least 112 soldiers and totally destroyed their vehicles. this devastating experience sent the survivors reeling in retreat and finished shattering any desire the Moldovans still had to fight in this war they had from the start considered unwinnable. lebed felt that to finish the conflict some psychological warfare was needed, and in a fiery news conference on 4 July 1992, he implied that russian units were ready to press deep into Moldova. In private he spread the rumors that he was contemplating the occupation of all Moldova.` - The Russian Military Resurgence: Post-Soviet Decline and Rebuilding, 1992-2018, Rene De La Pedraja, 2018
- On 21 July 1992, a ceasefire was declared which has held.
	- `The Republic Of Moldova and the Russian Federation,`
	  
	  `Desiring a speedy and total cease—fire and a peaceful settlement of the armed conflict in the Dniester region,`
	  
	  `Reaffirming their corrunitment to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe,`
	  
	  `Welcoming the mutual understanding in principle of 3 July 1992 between the President of the Republic of Moldova and the President of the Russian Federation,`
	  
	  `Have agreed as follows:`
	  
	  `Article 1`
	  
	  `1. From the moment of the signing of this Agreement, the parties to the conflict pledge to take all the necessary measures to ensure a total cease—fire and to halt all armed actions against each other.`
	  
	  `2. Once a cease—fire has been declared, the parties to the conflict shall proceed to withdraw units Of their armed forces and other formations, and military equipment and arms; they shall complete this process within seven days. The aim of this disengagement is to create a security zone between the parties to the conflict. The exact coordinates of the zone will be established in a special protocol between the sides taking part in the implementation Of this Agreement.`
	  
	  `In order to ensure the implementation of the measures stipulated in and to guarantee security in the aforementioned zone, a joint Control Cormnittee consisting of representatives of the three sides taking part in the settlement. shall be established. In its work, the Committee shall make use of the military observer groups established under all the previous agreements, including the quadripartite agreements. The Control Committee shall proceed to carry out its tasks as stipulated in this Agreement within seven days after the signing of the Agreement.` - [Agreeement on the principles for a peaceful settlement of the armed conflict in the Dniester region of the Republic Of Moldova, United Nations, 1992](https://web.archive.org/web/20200329003638/https://peacemaker.un.org/sites/peacemaker.un.org/files/MD%20RU_920000_AgreementPrinciplesPpeacefulSettlementDniestrConflict.pdf)
- On 1 April 1992, A decree by Boris Yeltsin, the first Russian President, transferred the personnel of the 14th Guards Army, as well as all left-bank military equipment, under Russian control. 
    - `President Yeltsin issued a critical decree on April 1, 1992 that transferred the 14th Army to Russian jurisdiction. At this point, it was almost inevitable that the 14th Army would become embroiled in the military conflict. Finding itself in the middle of an escalating crisis, the 14th Army could maintain neutrality only with great difficulty. Its legal status following international recognition of Moldova's independence became that of a foreign army illegally occupying the territory of a sovereign state. Kishinev insisted on the immediate withdrawal of the 14th Army from the territory of Moldova, as its presence interfered with Kishinev's plans to regain control over the trans-Dniester region. The situation was further complicated by popular agitation in the region, as local inhabitants persisted in lobbying the 14th Army for protection from the Moldovan authorities.` - [U.S. and Russian Policymaking With Respect to the Use of Force, RAND, 1996](hhttps://www.rand.org/pubs/conf_proceedings/CF129.html)
- In retrospect, comparing this invasion to the Russian Invasion of Georgia, justifications because of NATO expansion is irrelevant as Moldova’s constitution commits it to “permanent neutrality”.
    - `Article 11. Republic of Moldova - a neutral State`
      
      `1. The Republic of Moldova proclaims its permanent neutrality.`
      
      `2. The Republic of Moldova shall not allow the dispersal of foreign military troops on its territory.` - [Moldova (Republic of)'s Constitution of 1994 with Amendments through 2006](https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Moldova_2006.pdf)