## 2014 Glazyev tapes
- In 2016 Ukraine's Prosecutor General published wiretaps of telephone calls between Sergey Glazyev, Former Minister of Foreign Economic Relations of Russia, and a number of people in Ukraine directly involved in organizing pro-Russian mass riots in Odessa, Kharkiv and other cities in 2014.
    - 01.03.2014 - Glazyev instructs unknown man on the organization of mass unrest and create a pretext for invading army of Russian Federation. Sergey Glazyev: `Hi, Anatoliy Petrovych, why is Zaporizhia silent, where are they? We know exactly that he had a thousand of people. Where they are? Where are Kazaki? I have an order to raise everybody, to raise people. People should gather in the square to demand turn to Russia for help against “banderovtsy”. Specially trained people should knock out “Banderovtsy” from the building council, and then they should arrange the meeting of the regional state administration, gather executive authorities. Collect regional executive committee and give him the executive power and subordinate police to this new executive. I have direct orders – to raise the people in Ukraine where we can. So we must take people to the streets, so do as in Kharkiv and as soon as possible. Because as you see the president has signed a decree, operation began, here has reported that the military are raised. What are they waiting for? We can not do everything with force, we use the power to support people, not more. And if there are no people, what support there might be? Listen well, tell him that it is a very serious talk about the fate of the country and therefore there the war is going…` - [link](https://uaposition.com/analysis-opinion/english-translation-audio-evidence-putins-adviser-glazyev-russian-politicians-involvement-war-ukraine/)
- In the call, Glazyev gives instructions on how to increase the impact of these riots and turn them into occupation of administration buildings as well as gives instructions on receiving funding. He also instructed Sergey Aksyonov on how the Crimean referendum should be formulated.
    - 27.02.2014 - Glazyev and Zatulin discuss organizing mass riots in Odesa and Kharkiv Regions. Konstantin Zatulin: `That’s the main story. I want to say about other regions – we have financed Kharkiv, financed Odesa. So have taken applications from other regions, but as for now I slowed all down, because yet has not solved financial issue, but in the end I will stay alone with these obligations. Now I have paid to Kazaki the money, that they were promised by 10 people, but no one gave anything, well, etc. In general, on the financial issue are starting to annoy.` Sergey Glazyev: `So you say, have paid? And who paid?` Konstantin Zatulin: `I paid, and who else?` Sergey Glazyev: `So, you paid.` Konstantin Zatulin: `Well, there are small sums of 2 thousands, 3 thousands, like these. I have 4 requests signed by Chalyi for 50 thousand.` Sergey Glazyev: `Then you have to make a cost estimate, I will give it to those, let them work on the estimate.` - [link](https://uaposition.com/analysis-opinion/english-translation-audio-evidence-putins-adviser-glazyev-russian-politicians-involvement-war-ukraine/)