## Abortion
- A 2014 WHO document found that:
    - `Based on 2008 data, WHO estimates that there are approximately 22 million unsafe abortions annually, resulting in 47,000 deaths, and more than 5 million complications such as: incomplete abortion (failure to remove or expel all of the pregnancy tissue from the uterus); haemorrhage (heavy leeding); infection; uterine perforation (caused when the uterus is pierced by a sharp object); and damage to the genital tract and internal organs by inserting dangerous objects such as sticks, knitting needles, or broken glass into the vagina or anus.` `Globally, unsafe abortion accounts for an estimated 13% of all pregnancy-related deaths.` - [Preventing Unsafe Abortion, Fact Sheet, World Health Organisation, 2014](https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/112321/WHO_RHR_14.09_eng.pdf;jsessionid=481B6A58181BB579E0C654F97A1ADEAF?sequence=1)
- A 2015 WHO document found that:
    - `Restriction in access to safe abortion services results in both unsafe abortions and unwanted births. Almost all deaths and morbidity from unsafe abortion occur in countries where abortion is severely restricted in law and/or in practice.` `Nearly all unsafe abortions (98%) occurred in low- and middle-income countries. One of the factors driving unsafe abortion is the lack of safe abortion services, even where they are legal.` - [Safe abortion: Technical & policy guidance for health systems. Legal and policy considerations, World Health Organisation, 2015](https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/173586/WHO_RHR_15.04_eng.pdf;jsessionid=29C1CFD0AB9731960132761646E95991?sequence=1)
- A 2015 paper found that:
    - `Results from this study suggest that claims that many women experience abortion decision regret are likely unfounded. The random slope model we fit allowed for individual variability in decision rightness trajectory: some women have lower predicted values of the outcome and others higher values. The typical participant, however, had -99% chance of reporting that the abortion was right for her over three years, and her negative emotions subsided over time. These findings differ from those of the only other large-scale US prospective study, which found that negative emotions increased, and satisfaction with the abortion decision decreased slightly, over two years.` - [Decision Rightness and Emotional Responses to Abortion in the United States: A Longitudinal Study, Rocca et al., 2015](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1371/journal.pone.0128832)
- A 2018 paper found that:
    - `Women seeking abortion reported economic hardships at the time of abortion seeking—half (51%) were living below 100% of the federal poverty level; 3 quarters (76%) reported not having enough money to cover housing, transportation, and food. Most (63%) already had children.` - [Socioeconomic Outcomes of Women Who Receive and Women Who Are Denied Wanted Abortions in the United States, Foster et al., 2018](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.2105/AJPH.2017.304247?url_ver=Z39.88-2003)
- A 2020 paper found that:
    - `We find evidence that being denied an abortion has large and persistent negative effects on a woman’s financial well-being. Women denied an abortion experience a significant increase in financial distress during the year that they give birth (or, in some cases, would have given birth since some of them received an abortion elsewhere or miscarried), compared to their counterparts who received a wanted abortion. Unpaid debts that are 30 or more days past due more than double in size, and the number of public records, which include negative events such as evictions and bankruptcies, increases substantially. This financial impact extends throughout our sample period, with negative effects observed up to four years after the birth year. While we do not find as strong of evidence of changes in the financial independence of these women, as measured through markers of credit access, we do find that the women who were denied an abortion were significantly less likely to have a prime credit score in the two years following the birth.` - [The Economic Consequences of Being Denied an Abortion, Miller et al., 2020](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w26662/w26662.pdf)

## Abortion
- personhood requires consiousness/mind
- capactiy of mind starts 20-28 weeks
- capactiy of mind ends at brain death
- life is not a neccesary condition
    - pre-20-28 weeks fetus has unenactable rights
- conception is not a neccesary condition
    - pre-20-28 weeks fetus has unenactable rights
- human is not a neccesary condition
    - dead people has indefinite unenactable rights
    
- memories =/= consiousness/mind
- Molar pregnancy occurs AFTER fertilization when replication of cells becomes abnormal. The EMBRYO becomes a trophoblastic tumour, which is cancer. It is an embryo BEFORE it becomes cancer ie alive per Kristan. Molar pregancny DOES NOT result in miscarriage. Google invasive molar pregnancy. It can in fact spread the abnormal cells through the mother's body as cancer. This tumour began with fertilization and has unique DNA. So this cancer has rights?
- if no,
- So molar preg do not get rights because they are nonviable? Pregnancies with lethal genetic abnormalities that will never be viable on their own, but can still become full term? Anencephalic babies never develop consiciousness given time? Comments?