## Subsidizing Contraception
### Money is saved by the state
- A 2009 paper found that:
    - `We found all contraceptive methods dispensed through Family PACT to be cost-effective. Long-term methods are very cost-effective. Barrier methods and emergency contraceptives tend to yield the lowest savings per dollar spent because of their relatively low efficacy and short duration of use. Higher costs and fewer months of contraceptive protection from the contraceptive patch and ring result in lower cost savings than for oral contraceptives; however, these easier-to-use methods offer enhanced convenience for clients.` - [Cost savings from the provision of specific methods of contraception in a publicly funded program, Foster et al., 2009](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2661445/pdf/446.pdf)
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `Our estimates suggest that due to the price hike, the weekly birth rate increased by 4%. We show large effects on the number of children born to unmarried mothers, from mothers in their early 20's, and to primiparae women. Moreover, we find evidence of significant deterioration of newborn health as measured by the incidence of low birthweight and infant mortality. We suggest that the “extra” conceptions faced dire conditions during gestation as a result of mothers' unhealthy behaviors. In addition, we document a disproportional increase of 27% in the weekly miscarriage and stillbirth rates, which we interpret as manifestations of active efforts of termination in a country where abortion was illegal. As the “extra” children reached school age, we find lower school enrollment rates and higher participation in programs for students with special needs. Our results suggest that access to contraceptives may prevent conceptions that will turn out to be in relatively poor health, and thereby may improve the average health of children conceived.` - [The Children of the Missed Pill, Rau et al., 2017](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1363/46e1714)
### Less teen pregnancy
- A 2000 paper found that:
    - `The direct effect of the pill decreased the cost to women of remaining unmarried while investing in a professional career. The pill further reduced the cost of career investment for women by serving to increase the age at first marriage for a large fraction of all young people. The power of the pill in affecting women’s careers was magnified by its impact on the age at first marriage.` - [The Power Of The Pill: Oral Contraceptives And Women’s Career And Marriage Decisions, Goldin and Katz, 2000](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w7527/w7527.pdf)
- A 2005 paper found that:
    - `The results suggest that legal access to the pill before age 21 significantly reduced the likelihood of a first birth before age 22, increased the number of women in the paid labor force, and raised the number of annual hours worked. Access to the pill before the age of 21 reduced the likelihood of being a mother before age 22 by 14-18%, and increased later employment between the ages of 26-30 by 8%.` - [More Power To The Pill: The Impact Of Contraceptive Freedom On Women’s Life Cycle Labor Supply, Bailey, 2005](https://ir.vanderbilt.edu/bitstream/handle/1803/15760/vu04-wg01R.pdf;jsessionid=09E31BF0CC4543220E675D45EFADDA6D?sequence=1)
- A 2013 paper found that:
    - `With the passage of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Congress inadvertently and unexpectedly increased the effective price of birth control pills (“the Pill”) at college health centers more than three-fold, from $5 to $10 a month to between $30 to $50 a month. Using two different data sets, we employ multiple empirical strategies — including interrupted time-series, quasi-difference-in-differences, and fixed effects — for identification, and we find consistent results across data sets and methodologies. Our benchmark estimates show that this policy change reduced use of the Pill by at least 1.5 percentage points, or 3 to 4 percent, among all college women. For college women who lacked health insurance or carried large credit card balances, the decline was two to three times as large.` - [The Impact of Subsidized Birth Control for College Women: Evidence from the Deficit Reduction Act, Collins and Hershbein, 2013](https://www.appam.org/assets/1/7/The_Impact_of_Subsidized_Birth_Control_for_College_Women_Evidence_from_the_Deficit.pdf)
- A 2014 CDC paper found that:
    - `Birth rates for U.S. teenagers have generally fallen in the United States since peaking in 1957. The rate fell 57% between 1991 and 2013. The 2013 preliminary rate (26.6 per 1,000 aged 15-19) is less than one-third of the historically highest rate (96.3 in 1957).` `The declines in teen birth rates reflect a number of behavioral changes, including decreased sexual activity, increases in the use of contraception at first sex and at most recent sex, and the adoption and increased use of hormonal contraception, injectables, and intrauterine devices.` - [National and State Patterns of Teen Births in the United States, 1940–2013, Ventura et al., 2010](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr63/nvsr63_04.pdf)
- A 2014 paper found that:
    - `The LARC methods it promoted and paid for appeared to contribute to a large decline in fertility among the young, low-income patient population and to a decline in the overall fertility rate among women younger than 25. At the same time, measurable declines occurred in abortion rates, births to young unmarried women with limited education.` - [Game change in Colorado: widespread use of long-acting reversible contraceptives and rapid decline in births among young, low-income women, Ricketts et al., 2014](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1363/46e1714)
### Health impact on women
- A 2002 paper found that:
    - `Among women from 35 to 64 years of age, current or former oral-contraceptive use was not associated with a significantly increased risk of breast cancer` - [Oral Contraceptives and the Risk of Breast Cancer, Marchbanks et al., 2002](https://www.nejm.org/doi/pdf/10.1056/NEJMoa013202?articleTools=true)
- A 2004 paper found that:
    - `The best overall evidence of noncontraceptive benefits associated with COC use is in the area of risk reduction for some cancers, maintenance of bone mineral density, and the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris. Although the mechanism is not well understood, COC use has been consistently associated with protection against ovarian and endometrial cancers, based on both case-control and cohort studies. COC use also has been shown to reduce the risk of colorectal cancer. Results of several studies have indicated a positive effect on bone mineral density and, perhaps more importantly, a reduced risk of hip fracture among postmenopausal women who have taken COCs. The data on improvement of acne is so compelling that 2 COCs have been approved by the FDA to treat moderate acne.` - [Safety concerns and health benefits associated with oral contraception, Burkman et al., 2004](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1016/j.ajog.2004.01.061) - 
- A 2005 paper found that:
    - `notable effects on the reproductive system include relief from troublesome symptoms associated with menstruation such as heavy periods, painful periods and irregular bleeding. Many women also have improvement in acne and hirsutism. Moreover, OCs may be used to treat menorrhagia or symptomatic endometriosis.` - [Noncontraceptive health benefits of combined oral contraception, ESHRE Capri Workshop Group, 2005](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/humupd/dmi019)
- A 2006 paper found that:
    - `Uterine body cancer...and ovarian cancer...showed strong negative associations with duration of OC use...This apparent protective effect for both cancers persisted for more than 20 years after stopping OCs. Combining data for cancers of the cervix, uterine body and ovary, the age adjusted RR for women ever using OCs compared with those never doing so was 0.7 (95%CI, 0.5–0.8). Beneficial effects of OCs on the gynaecological cancers thus outweighed adverse effects.` - [Oral contraceptive use and cancer. Findings in a large cohort study, 1968–2004, Vessey and Painter, 2006](https://www.nature.com/articles/6603260.pdf)
### Abstinence only education is ineffective
- A 2008 paper found that:
    - `Teaching about contraception was not associated with increased risk of adolescent sexual activity or STD. Adolescents who received comprehensive sex education had a lower risk of pregnancy than adolescents who received abstinence-only or no sex education.` - [Abstinence-Only and Comprehensive Sex Education and the Initiation of Sexual Activity and Teen Pregnancy, Kohler et al., 2008](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1016/j.jadohealth.2007.08.026)