## Universal Pre-K
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `Like the TPS pre-K program, CAP’s Head Start program yields persistent gains in math and a reduction in grade retention. It is not associated with higher enrollment in honors courses, but it is associated with less chronic absenteeism.` - [The Effects of Tulsa's Pre-K Program on Middle School Student Performance, Gormley et al., 2018](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1002/pam.22023)
- A 2013 paper found that:
    - `For lower-SES children, we find evidence of increases in math scores that may be sustained through eighth grade. The increases may be working through multiple channels. First, children are likely to switch from not attending preschool to attending a high-quality public preschool when a universal program is introduced. Moreover, we find suggestive evidence that although they spend less time overall in the presence of their mothers, these children spend more time actively engaging in activities such as playing and reading with them. We also find suggestive evidence that their mothers are more likely to become employed.` - [The Impacts of Expanding Access to High-Quality Preschool Education, Cascio and Schanzenbach, 2013](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/2013b_cascio_preschool_education.pdf)
- A 2019 report found that:
    - `Of all Black and Latino 3- and 4-year-olds in the 26 states we analyzed, only 1% of Latino children and 4% of Black children were enrolled in high-quality state-funded preschool programs. Even among those who were enrolled in state-funded preschool programs, only 4% of Latino children and 13% of Black children in the 26 states we analyzed were enrolled in high-quality programs.` - [Young Learners, Missed Opportunities: Ensuring That Black and Latino Children Have Access to High-Quality State-Funded Preschool, The Education Trust, 2019](https://s3-us-east-2.amazonaws.com/edtrustmain/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/05162154/Young-Learners-Missed-Opportunities.pdf)
- A 2018 report found that:
    - `The two years of free, high-quality preschool that Washington, D.C., offers have resulted in the city boasting the highest maternal labor force participation rate in the nation. The District of Columbia’s universal preschool program has been good for significant numbers of women and their families, but it has also made the city an even more attractive place to live for those who can afford its high cost of living.` - [The Effects of Universal Preschool in Washington, D.C., Malik, 2018](https://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2018/09/Children-Learning-Mothers-Earning-report.pdf)
- A 2020 report found that:
    - `the positive budgetary impacts alone are greater than the costs—so that the programs pay for themselves. Specifically, the school facilities infrastructure investment returns $3.27 of output and $0.82 in tax revenues for each dollar invested in the program. The pre-K investment returns $3.08 in output and $1.61 in budgetary savings for each dollar spent on the program. And the K-12 public school investment yields $6.66 in output and $1.66 in tax revenue for each dollar expended.` - [Public investments in education can spur equitable growth, pay for themselves, and create jobs for a stronger economic recovery, Lynch, 2020](https://equitablegrowth.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/102620-education-investment-report.pdf)