### 1917-23 Russian Revolution
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Revolution)
- Book - A Concise History of the Russian Revolution - [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
- Book - The Great War - [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzacedoxuu33g44lvbtaigktbw2brodlix4rbnbwmqbyjvl5gp67d2w2o?filename=%28Modern%20Wars%20in%20Perspective%29%20Ian%20F.W.%20Beckett%20-%20The%20Great%20War_%201914-1918-Routledge%20%282007%29.pdf)
- Book - The Russian Provisional Government 1917 Documents - [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzacearzlmowbqphrwjchdgmdlm2m7pw2kw46j7rmlvbtmtrbjjiibcgy?filename=Robert%20P.%20Browder_%20Aleksandr%20Fyodorovich%20Kerensky%20-%20The%20Russian%20Provisional%20Government%2C%201917_%20Documents%2C%20Volumes%20I-III-Stanford%20University%20Press%20%281961%29.pdf)
- Book - Russia in Revolution - [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzacecbfl3ivuiasuerahxct4h6qsid2nw6xaaamwpgism4imx7wfbe46?filename=Smith%2C%20Stephen%20Anthony%20-%20Russia%20in%20revolution%20_%20an%20Empire%20in%20crisis%2C%201890%20to%201928-Oxford%20University%20Press%20%282017%29.pdf)
- to watch [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cUvpE_8A9kU)
#### 1917 February Revolution
- Between 8–16 March 1917 (23 February Old Style), The February Revolution was the first of two revolutions which took place in Russia in 1917.
- The main events of the revolution took place in and near Petrograd (present-day Saint Petersburg), the then-capital of Russia, where long-standing discontent with the monarchy erupted into mass protests against food rationing.
    - `The day after Nicholas's departure, disorders broke out in Petrograd. They began with a demonstration on International Woman's Day (February 2 3). The event proceeded peacefully,` ... `On February 24, the situation in the capital deteriorated when up to 200,000 idle workers, either on strike or locked out, filled the streets. On the city's main thoroughfare, Nevsky Prospekt, crowds shouted "Down with the autocracy!" and "Down with the war!" Here and there, mobs sacked food stores. The following day the crowds, emboldened by the lack of a vigorous response, grew still more aggressive. Apparently under the influence of radical intellectuals, the demonstrations now assumed a distinctly political character, with red banners making their appearance bearing evolutionary slogans, some of which read "Down with the German Woman!" In several city quarters, gendarmes came under attack.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
- On 15 March (2 March Old Style), Nicholas II agreed Abdicated the throne of the Russian Empire on behalf of himself and his son, Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich, in favor of his brother Grand Duke Michael Alexandrovich. This led to the establishment of a Democratic Dual Power structure of Russia for a brief period between the Provisional Government made from the original official State Duma and the Petrograd Soviet made up of workers councils.
    - `A provisional government under Prince L’vov was nominated by the Duma’s leaders acting as a provisional committee on 14 March. It forced the Tsar to abdicate on behalf of himself and his son in favour of Grand Duke Michael on 15 March (2 March).` [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzacedoxuu33g44lvbtaigktbw2brodlix4rbnbwmqbyjvl5gp67d2w2o?filename=%28Modern%20Wars%20in%20Perspective%29%20Ian%20F.W.%20Beckett%20-%20The%20Great%20War_%201914-1918-Routledge%20%282007%29.pdf)
- On 16 March (3 March Old Style) the Grand Duke Michael Alexandrovich refused to accept the imperial authority, stating that he would accept it only if that was the consensus of democratic action by the Russian Constituent Assembly, which shall define the form of government for Russia.
    - `A heavy burden has been laid upon Me by the will of My Brother, Who has given over to Me the Imperial Throne of All the Russias at a time of unprecedented warfare and popular disturbances. Inspired by the thought, which is shared by all the people, that the good of our native land is above everything else, I have taken a firm decision to assume the Supreme Power only in the event that such is the will of our great people, upon whom it devolves by a general vote, through their representatives in the Constituent Assembly, to determine the form of government and the new fundamental laws of the Russian State.` [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzacearzlmowbqphrwjchdgmdlm2m7pw2kw46j7rmlvbtmtrbjjiibcgy?filename=Robert%20P.%20Browder_%20Aleksandr%20Fyodorovich%20Kerensky%20-%20The%20Russian%20Provisional%20Government%2C%201917_%20Documents%2C%20Volumes%20I-III-Stanford%20University%20Press%20%281961%29.pdf) [p116]
- The Provisional Government wanted Russia to continue to be involved in World War I, much to the dismay of the Petrograd Soviets.
    - `The February Revolution produced a surge of patriotism and a renewed determination across a wide swathe of society to defend the Revolution against German militarism. This mood was reflected in the Petrograd Soviet’s policy on bringing an end to the war, a policy crafted by the Georgian Menshevik I. Tsereteli, and published as a proclamation ‘To the Peoples of the World’ on 14 March. Although it called for the army to defend the Revolution, its ‘revolutionary defencism’ was more radical than that of the Workers’ Group of the War Industries Committees insofar as its accent was very much on internationalism and on the achievement of a peace without territorial annexations or the imposition of indemnities.` [link](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzacecbfl3ivuiasuerahxct4h6qsid2nw6xaaamwpgism4imx7wfbe46?filename=Smith%2C%20Stephen%20Anthony%20-%20Russia%20in%20revolution%20_%20an%20Empire%20in%20crisis%2C%201890%20to%201928-Oxford%20University%20Press%20%282017%29.pdf)
- The Bolsheviks, lead by Lenin, took advantage of the commitment to the war to fuel a future second revolution and recognised the agreement between the the Provisional Government and the Petrograd Soviet.
    - `It should be clear from this why our comrades, too, make so many mistakes when putting the question “simply”: Should the Provisional Government be overthrown immediately? My answer is: (1) it should be overthrown, for it is an oligarchic, bourgeois, and not a people’s government, and is unable to provide peace, bread, or full freedom; (2) It cannot be overthrown just now, for it is being kept in power by a direct and indirect, a formal and actual agreement with the Soviets of Workers’ Deputies, and primarily with the chief Soviet, the Petrograd Soviet; (3) generally, it can not be “overthrown” in the ordinary way, for it rests on the “support” given to the bourgeoisie by the second government—the Soviet of Workers’ Deputies, and that government is the only possible revolutionary government, which directly expresses the mind and will of the majority of the workers and peasants. Humanity has not yet evolved and we do not as yet know a type of government superior to and better than the Soviets of Workers’, Agricultural Labourers’, Peasants’, and Soldiers’ Deputies.` - Lenin [link](https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1917/apr/09.htm)
#### 1917 October Revolution
- On 7 November 1917 (25 October Old Style), The October Revolution was a revolution in Russia led by the Bolshevik Party of Vladimir Lenin. It was the second revolutionary change of government in Russia in 1917. It took place through an armed insurrection in Petrograd (now Saint Petersburg). It was the precipitating event of the Russian Civil War.
- The October Revolution followed and capitalized on the February Revolution earlier that year.
    - `The Bolshevik coup went through two phases. In the first, during which Lenin assumed direct command, the strategy was to replicate the events of February and bring the government down by street demonstrations.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
- The left-wing Bolsheviks were deeply unhappy with the government, and began spreading calls for a military uprising. On 23 October 1917 (10 October Old Style), the Petrograd Soviet, led by Trotsky, voted to back a military uprising.
    - `Although Lenin wanted immediate action, he had to yield to the majority of his associates, who preferred that the coup be carried out in the name of the soviets. Since a genuinely elected national congress of soviets was almost certain to yield a Bolshevik minority, Trotsky and his lieutenants proceeded to convene a congress composed mostly of those soviets in which they had assured majorities. Ignoring the protests of the Ispolkom that it alone had the right to convene congresses of soviets, they created a spurious "Northern Regional Committee" composed of eleven Bolsheviks and six Left SRs (a splinter from the SR Party, temporarily affiliated with them). This committee, arrogating itself the authority of the Ispolkom, invited soviets and military committees to send delegates to the forthcoming Congress.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
- On 6 November 1917 (24 October Old Style), the government shut down numerous newspapers and closed the city of Petrograd in an attempt to forestall the revolution; minor armed skirmishes broke out.
    - `Although signed by Lenin, it was actually drafted by Anatolii Lunacharskii, the Commissar of Enlightenment. It called for the shutting down of the "counterrevolutionary" press, by which were meant all newspapers that refused to acknowledge the legitimacy of the October coup-in effect, the entire press except for the organs of the Bolsheviks and Left SRs` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
- The next day a full scale uprising erupted as a fleet of Bolshevik sailors entered the harbor and tens of thousands of soldiers rose up in support of the Bolsheviks. Bolshevik Red Guards forces under the Military-Revolutionary Committee began the occupation of government buildings on 25 October (O.S.; 7 November, N.S.), 1917. The following day, the Winter Palace (the seat of the Provisional government located in Petrograd, then capital of Russia) was captured.
    - `That night (October 24-25), Bolshevik units methodically took control of the key points in the city by the simple procedure of posting pickets. Junker guards, told to retire, either withdrew voluntarily or were disarmed. Thus, under cover of darkness, the Milrevkom occupied, one by one, railroad stations, postal, telephone and telegraph offices, banks, and bridges. No resistance was encountered, no shots exchanged.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
    - `The cabinet that Lenin had declared deposed sat in the Malachite Room of the Winter Palace awaiting help. Five thousand Kronshtadt sailors brought in by the Bolsheviks to seize the government's last stronghold had no heart for battle.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
- As the Revolution was not universally recognized, the country descended into the Russian Civil War, which would last until 1923 and ultimately lead to the creation of the Soviet Union in late 1922.
#### 1918 Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
- On 3 March 1918, The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk [link](https://avalon.law.yale.edu/20th_century/bl34.asp#treatytext) (also known as the Treaty of Brest in Russia) was a separate peace treaty signed between the new Bolshevik government of Russia, headed my Lenin, and the Central Powers (German Empire, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria, and the Ottoman Empire), that ended Russia's participation in World War I.
- The treaty also signed over areas of the former Russian Empire
    - `The terms of the Brest-Litovsk Treaty, which the Russians signed on March 3, were extremely burdensome. They give an idea of what the Allies would have faced had they lost the war. Russia had to make major territorial concessions which deprived her of the conquests made in the west since the middle of the seventeenth century. She had to give lip Poland, Finland, and the Ukraine, as well as Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and Transcaucasia.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
    - `Lenin has been widely credited with prophetic vision in accepting a humiliating treaty which gave him the time he needed to organize his government, and which collapsed of its own weight once Germany surrendered to the Allies on November 11, 1918. When the Bolsheviks renounced the Brest-Litovsk Treaty two days later, Lenin's stock in Bolshevik ranks rose to unprecedented heights. Nothing he had done contributed more to his reputation for infallibility; he never again had to threaten resignation to have his way.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
- The motivations of this treaty has been renounced to be what the future actions the Soviet Union’s Foreign Policy would be.
    - `The circumstances surrounding the Brest-Litovsk Treaty furnish the classic model of what was to become Soviet foreign policy for the next seventy years. Its principles may be summarized as follows:`
      
      `I. The highest priority at all times is to be assigned to the retention of political power-that is, sovereign authority and control of the state apparatus over some part-no matter how small-of one's national territory. This is the irreducible minimum. No price is too high to secure it; for its sake anything and everything can be sacrificed: human lives, land and resources, national honor. The premise behind this principle is that time works for communism, for which reason whatever is given up today will be regained tomorrow.`
      
      `Ever since Russia underwent the October Revolution, which turned her into the focal point of world socialism, her security and interests have taken precedence over the security and interests of any other country, cause, or party, including those of the "international proletariat."`
      
      `To purchase temporary advantages, it is permissible to make peace with "imperialist" countries, but such peace must be treated as an armed truce, to be broken when the situation changes in one's favor. History teaches, Lenin said in arguing for the ratification of the Brest-Litovsk Treaty, that peace is nothing but "a breathing spell for war." As long as capitalism exists, he declared in May I9I8, international agreements are but "scraps of paper." Even in periods of nominal peace, hostilities should be pursued by covert means to undermine governments with which one has signed peace agreements.`
      
      `4· Politics being warfare, foreign policy must always be conducted unemotionally, with the closest attention being paid to the correlation of forces. In Lenin's words: We have great revolutionary experience, and from that experience we have learned that it is necessary to follow the tactics of relentless advance whenever objective conditions allow it ... But we have to adopt the tactic of procrastination, the slow gathering of forces when the objective conditions do not offer the possibility of making an appeal to the general relentless advance.
    
    Yet another fundamental principle of Bolshevik foreign policy was to be revealed after the signing of the Brest-Litovsk Treaty: the principle that Bolshevik interests abroad (as at home) had to be promoted by the application of the "divide and rule" principle: the most circumspect, careful, cautious, skillful exploitation of-every, even the smallest "crack" among one's enemies, of every conflict of interest among the bourgeoisie of the various countries, among the various groupings or species of the bourgeoisie within individual countries` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
    
- This treaty was later anulled as a part of the [Russian Civil War](https://www.notion.so/27b787c817dd4ec6b105f068c07e9c03?pvs=21)
    

#### 1917-23 Russian Civil War
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Terror)
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_graves_from_Soviet_mass_executions)
- On August 1918 – February 1922, the Red Terror in Soviet Russia was a campaign of political repression and executions carried out by the Bolsheviks, chiefly through the Cheka, the Bolshevik secret police.
#### 1921-22 Russian Famine (Povolzhye Famine)
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_famine_of_1921%E2%80%931922)
#### 1918 Execution of the Russian Monarchy
- On 16-17 July 1918,The Russian Imperial Romanov family were shot and bayoneted to death by Bolshevik revolutionaries under Yakov Yurovsky on the orders of the Ural Regional Soviet in Yekaterinburg. Also murdered that night were members of the imperial entourage who had accompanied them: court physician Eugene Botkin; lady-in-waiting Anna Demidova; footman Alexei Trupp; and head cook Ivan Kharitonov. The bodies were taken to the Koptyaki forest, where they were stripped, buried, and mutilated to prevent identification.
    
    - `The Imperial family spent July 16 in their customary manner. Judging by the last entry in Alexandra's diary, written at 11 p.m. as the. family retired for the night, they had no premonition of what was about to happen. They were awakened at 1:30 a.m. and told that in view of the unrest in the city and occasional random shooting, they would be removed to the basement. At 2 a.m. under heavy guard, the seven Romanovs, their physician, lady-in-waiting, and two servants descended to the lower floor. A short time later, the commandant of the house, a Chekist by the name of Iakov Iurovskii, entered the crowded room accompanied by a squad of armed guards. From his recently discovered recollections of the event, this is what ensued:
    
    When the party entered, [I] told the Romanovs that in view of the fact that their relatives continued their offensive against Soviet Russia, the Executive Committee of the Ural Soviet had decided to shoot them. Nicholas turned his back to the detachment and faced his family. Then, as if collecting himself, he turned around, asking "What? What?" [I] rapidly repeated what I had said and ordered the detachment to get ready. Its members had been previously instructed whom to shoot and to aim directly at the heart to avoid much blood and finish more quickly. Nicholas said nothing more. He turned again toward his family. The others shouted some incoherent exclamations. All this lasted a few seconds. Then commenced the shooting which lasted for two or three minutes. [I] killed Nicholas on the spot.
    
    The young Alexis, who lay on the floor in a pool of blood but still breathing, was dispatched by Iurovskii with two shots in the head. The whole "procedure," as Iurovskii calls it, took twenty minutes. The bodies were carried to a truck and taken out of town to a place previously chosen for the purpose. There they were stripped. It was discovered that three of the girls had sewn into their corsets large quantities of diamonds; Iurovskii had considerable difficulty preventing the executioners from stealing them. The bodies were soaked with sulfuric acid and kerosene, and then burned. The remains were buried in a shallow grave that was not discovered until 1989.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebnsk5n32pgusyhvt6mce5ocih3yxmlhp62d7o5gslwc7sfyrbym2?filename=Richard%20Pipes%20-%20A%20Concise%20History%20of%20the%20Russian%20Revolution-Knopf%20%281995%29.pdf)
    

#### 1918-22 Red Terror
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Terror)
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_graves_from_Soviet_mass_executions)
- On August 1918 – February 1922, the Red Terror in Soviet Russia was a campaign of political repression and executions carried out by the Bolsheviks, chiefly through the Cheka, the Bolshevik secret police.
#### 1921 Soviet Occupation of Georgia
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Army_invasion_of_Georgia)
- In 15 February – 17 March 1921, the Bolsheviks with the red army invaded Georgia.
#### 1921 Kronstadt Revolution Attempt
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Army_invasion_of_Georgia)
- to read [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacedukep33gggo36febxnvj6msivqrkgwf2cmiijhh7hvyalijes5xo?filename=Paul%20Avrich%20-%20Kronstadt%2C%201921-Princeton%20University%20Press%20%281991%29.pdf)
- to watch ****[link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oZVvs1NWk7o)
- On 1-18 March 1921, The Kronstadt rebellion was a 1921 insurrection of Soviet sailors and civilians against the Bolshevik government in the Russian port city of Kronstadt. Located on Kotlin Island in the Gulf of Finland, Kronstadt defended the former capital city, Petrograd (now Saint Petersburg), as the base of the Baltic Fleet. For sixteen days in March 1921, rebels in Kronstadt's naval fortress rose in opposition to the Soviet government they had helped to consolidate. Led by Stepan Petrichenko, it was the last major revolt against Bolshevik rule on Russian territory during the Russian Civil War.
#### 1922 Treaty of Rapallo
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treaty_of_Rapallo_(1922))
#### 1922 Creation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
- On 29 December 1922, The Declaration and Treaty on the Formation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics officially created the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), commonly known as the Soviet Union. It de jure legalised a political union of several Soviet republics that had existed since 1919 and created a new federal government whose key functions were centralised in Moscow.
- Its legislative branch consisted of the Congress of Soviets of the Soviet Union and the Central Executive Committee of the Soviet Union (TsIK), while the Council of People's Commissars composed the executive.
- The Treaty, along with the Declaration of the Creation of the USSR was approved on 30 December 1922 by a conference of delegations from the Russian SFSR, the Transcaucasian SFSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian SSR.
- Following the declaration, is the treaty itself consisting of a preface and 26 articles. In the preface it is fixed that the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, the Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic, the Byelorussian Socialist Soviet Republic and the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic (containing Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia) acting in free will, agree to form a single Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, that is governed on articles listed in the treaty.
    - Article 1 lists the competency of the responsibilities that the Union's authorities would contain. These include all foreign affairs; international treaties; change in external borders; expansion of the Union by accepting new republics; declaring war and agreeing to peace; foreign and domestic trade; authority over economic development; creating unified postal and transport services; the armed forces; internal migration; creation of single judiciary, education and healthcare services as well as unifying all units of measurement. All of the above would be thus explicitly controlled directly by the Union's authority. Moreover, the final clause explicitly listed, that the Union's authorities could now overturn acts of all Republics' authorities (be it Congresses of Soviets, Soviets of People's Commissars or Central Executive Committees) that were deemed in violation with regard to this Treaty.
    - Articles 2–10 determined the structure of supreme authorities of the Union. The legislative authority, according to the treaty, was the Congress of Soviets of the Soviet Union and between the congresses, this was to be carried out by the Central Executive Committee of the Soviet Union (TsIK)
    - (2). The delegates to the Congress are to be elected by local Soviets represented by one elected representative from 25,000 voters in urban areas and one per 125,000 voters in rural areas
    - (3). The Congress delegates would be elected by local Guberniya Soviets, rather than Republican ones
    - (4). The congresses would be held annually or may be summoned by requests of at least two Republics' or the Union's TsIK
    - (5). The TsIK would be the main body to carry out executive functions between the congresses. This TsiK was a 371-person body, whose members were proportionally represented to the population of the Union, and elected by the Congress
    - (6). The Union TsIK would meet four times per annum on a regular basis, whilst irregular sessions can be summoned on demand by the Union government (the Council of People's Commissars) or by one of the constituent Republics
    - (7). The Congress and the TsIK would be held in the capitals of the Union Republics in the order that would be decided by TsIK's Presidium
    - (8). The latter was to be appointed by TsIK, that would be the supreme power organ between its sessions
    - (9). This Presidium would consist of nineteen members, with four chairmen, each representing the four republics
    - (10). The Presidium also had the authority to summon an irregular session of TsIK.
    - Article 11 appointed the executive authority, the Council of People's Commissars (SNK). The council's members were appointed by TsIK, and included ten portfolios (commissariats) as well as a chairmen and his deputies.
    - Article 12 specified the functions of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union (under control of TsIK) and the secret police, the OGPU (under control of the SNK, and the OGPU chairman was to be a participant of the SNK with advisory vote). The creation of these two bodies was justified as measures to overcome criminal and counter-revolutionary elements in that very article.
    - Articles 13–17 specified the framework on the legal proceedings between the Union's supreme bodies (the TsIK and the SNK) and those of each republic. All of the decrees by Union's SNK were effective in every republic (13). Also confirmed, was the multilingual aspect of the Union, specifying that all of the Union's decrees are to printed in the official language of each constituent republic (Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Georgian, Armenian and Turkic (i.e. Azerbaijani)) (14). It was specified that the Union's SNK resolution may only be overruled by the Union's TsIK or its Presidium (16), and if a republican TsIK chooses to protest the resolution or a decree of the Union's TsIK, the protest itself does not halt the implementation of the document (15). The latter is only possible if there are obvious violations with existing laws, and in such cases, the republic must immediately notify the Union's SNK and the relevant commissariat (17).
    - Article 18 listed the authorities that would be retained by the Republics[example needed] and specified their respective Councils of People's Commissars, each to have a chairman, his deputies, eleven portfolios and representatives with advisory votes of several Union-level commissariats, in particular foreign affairs, defence, foreign trade, transport and logistics.
    - At the same time article 19 specified that republican-level organs, the Supreme Soviet of the National Economy (whose chairman was to also have a full seat in the relevant republican SNK), the commissariats for food supply, finance and labour, as well as the Soviet inspection (the Rabkrin) though subjugated to the Republican authorities, their activities were to be regulated by the Union's TsIK.
    - Article 20 discussed that the budgets of the Republics would form the Union's budget and that all expenses and spendings by the Republics would be determined by the Union's TsIK. Moreover, the latter would also determine the share of profits, if any, that each Republic would receive.
    - Articles 21–23 created a single Soviet citizenship (21), state symbolism (flag, national anthem and a coat of arms – 22), and specified the Union's capital in Moscow (23).
    - Article 24 demanded that the republics amended their constitutions with regard to the treaty.
    - Article 25 specified that any amendments, additions or changes to the treaty may be done only by the Union's Congress of Soviets.
    - Article 26 affirmed the clause in the declaration where each republic has the right to leave the Union.