- On 16-17 July 1918,The Russian Imperial Romanov family were shot and bayoneted to death by Bolshevik revolutionaries under Yakov Yurovsky on the orders of the Ural Regional Soviet in Yekaterinburg. Also murdered that night were members of the imperial entourage who had accompanied them: court physician Eugene Botkin; lady-in-waiting Anna Demidova; footman Alexei Trupp; and head cook Ivan Kharitonov. The bodies were taken to the Koptyaki forest, where they were stripped, buried, and mutilated to prevent identification.
    - `The Imperial family spent July 16 in their customary manner. Judging by the last entry in Alexandra's diary, written at 11 p.m. as the. family retired for the night, they had no premonition of what was about to happen. They were awakened at 1:30 a.m. and told that in view of the unrest in the city and occasional random shooting, they would be removed to the basement. At 2 a.m. under heavy guard, the seven Romanovs, their physician, lady-in-waiting, and two servants descended to the lower floor. A short time later, the commandant of the house, a Chekist by the name of Iakov Iurovskii, entered the crowded room accompanied by a squad of armed guards. From his recently discovered recollections of the event, this is what ensued:`
      
      `When the party entered, [I] told the Romanovs that in view of the fact that their relatives continued their offensive against Soviet Russia, the Executive Committee of the Ural Soviet had decided to shoot them. Nicholas turned his back to the detachment and faced his family. Then, as if collecting himself, he turned around, asking "What? What?" [I] rapidly repeated what I had said and ordered the detachment to get ready. Its members had been previously instructed whom to shoot and to aim directly at the heart to avoid much blood and finish more quickly. Nicholas said nothing more. He turned again toward his family. The others shouted some incoherent exclamations. All this lasted a few seconds. Then commenced the shooting which lasted for two or three minutes. [I] killed Nicholas on the spot.`
      
      `The young Alexis, who lay on the floor in a pool of blood but still breathing, was dispatched by Iurovskii with two shots in the head. The whole "procedure," as Iurovskii calls it, took twenty minutes. The bodies were carried to a truck and taken out of town to a place previously chosen for the purpose. There they were stripped. It was discovered that three of the girls had sewn into their corsets large quantities of diamonds; Iurovskii had considerable difficulty preventing the executioners from stealing them. The bodies were soaked with sulfuric acid and kerosene, and then burned. The remains were buried in a shallow grave that was not discovered until 1989.` - A Concise History of the Russian Revolution, Richard Pipes, 1995