- The Gulag, a Russian acronym for "chief administration of the camps” was the government agency in charge of the Soviet network of forced labor camps set up by order of Vladimir Lenin, reaching its peak during Joseph Stalin's rule from the 1930s to the early 1950s ending almost immediately following the death of Stalin.
- The Gulag system caused the deaths of 1.5-1.7 million people.
    - `That tentative consensus says that oncesecret records of the Gulag administration in Moscow show a lower death toll than expected from memoir sources, generally between 1.5 and 1.7 million (out of 18 million who passed through) for the years from 1930 to 1953 (153–154).` - Illness and Inhumanity in Stalin’s Gulag, Golfo Alexopoulos, 2018
- The Gulag system death rate may be underestimates because of the officials lying and the practice of releasing prisoners near death.
    - `The Gulag reported the largest numbers of inmate deaths in the two worst years of the war, 1942–1943, when camp mortality climbed to nearly a quarter of all prisoners. Scholars have been justifi ably cautious when using this data. Internal Gulag records are often inconsistent. Both the medical-sanitation department and the accounting and distribution department kept records on inmate deaths, and their figures do not coincide. Deaths during transport did not get included in the official record.` - Illness and Inhumanity in Stalin’s Gulag, Golfo Alexopoulos, 2018
- Gulag labor was half as productive as regular labor.
    - `According to the data of the Gulag chief Y.G. Nasedkin, in January 1941 labor productivity in construction and assembly work in the Gulag was 23 rubles 50 kopecks, whereas labor productivity under the Union People's Commissariats was 44 rubles 98 kopecks; in February the levels were 24 rubles 80 kopecks and 49 rubles 67 kopecks, respectively. Labor productivity on NKVD construction sites was an average of 50 percent lower than at construction projects under the Union People's Commissariats` - Labor Camp Socialism: the Gulag In the Soviet Totalitarian System, Galina Ivanova, 2000
- A minority of GULAG forced laborers were criminals: just 20.6% in 1934, 27.8% in 1936, and 17.3% in 1940 were sentenced for a crime, and just 4.7% in 1934, 5.5% in 1936, and 5.2% in 1940 for a "crime against persons”
    - `It is commonly believed that most of the prisoners of the "Gulag Archipelago" had been arrested and sentenced for political offenses falling under one of the headings of "counterrevolutionary offenses" (Article 58 in the criminal code). It is also common wisdom that many people arrested for other reasons were accused of political crimes for propaganda value. The available evidence does not bear out this view, but it does suggest considerable ambiguity in definitions of "political crimes." Table 7 shows the breakdown of labor camp inmates for selected years, according to the offense for which they were sentenced. Although the presence of alleged counterrevolutionaries is impressive, it turns out that ostensibly non-political detainees heavily outnumbered "politicals."` [Victims of the Soviet Penal System in the Pre-war Years: A First Approach on the Basis of Archival Evidence, J. Arch Getty, Gábor T. Rittersporn, Viktor N. Zemskov, 1993](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1086/ahr/98.4.1017)