- Operation Barbarossa was the invasion of the Soviet Union by Nazi Germany and most of the Axis leaders, starting on 22 June 1941 which made the [[1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact]] then unofficially terminated and then officially terminated on 30 July 1941 in the Sikorski–Mayski Agreement.
- Stalin was caught off but this invasion by the Nazis and thought reports from Soviet agents warning him of a potential invasion were the Nazi’s hard-balling for more economic concessions.
    - `For all its multinational trimmings, therefore, ‘Operation Barbarossa’ was thus in essence to be a German operation. As the winter snows of East-Central Europe melted and the ground thawed, the German armed forces began moving vast masses of men and equipment up to the Soviet border. Throughout May and early June 1941, Zygmunt Klukowski recorded endless columns of German troops and vehicles passing through his region of Poland, noting the passage of between 500 and 600 vehicles on 14 June alone, for example. Stalin hurriedly launched a futile policy of trying to appease the Germans by stepping up Soviet deliveries of Asian rubber and other supplies under the trade agreement signed in January 1941. As a dogmatic Marxist-Leninist, Stalin was convinced that Hitler’s regime was the tool of German monopoly capitalism, so that if he made available everything German business wanted, there would be no immediate reason to invade. Already, under trade provisions agreed under the Nazi-Soviet Pact early the previous year, the Soviet Union was supplying nearly threequarters of Germany’s requirement of phosphates, over two-thirds of its imported asbestos, only a little less of its chrome ore, over half its manganese, over a third of its imported nickel, and, even more crucially, more than a third of its imported oil. Stalin personally vetoed proposals to disrupt the German military build-up by attacking across the Polish demarcation line. Reports from Soviet agents and even from members of the German embassy in Moscow that an invasion was imminent only convinced him that the Germans were playing hard-ball in their drive to extract economic concessions from him.` - [link] - The Third Reich at war, Richard Evans, 2009
- Stalin’s trust in Soviet intelligence agents was low because of the relaying of correct Nazi planned dates that were delayed, and Stalin interpreting that as people pushing him towards preemptive war with Germany and when informed by a deserted Nazi soldier of the what became the true date of the invasion, Stalin had him shot for spreading disinformation.
    - `At the same time, Stalin realized that, as he told graduating military cadets in Moscow on 5 May 1941, ‘War with Germany is inevitable.’ Molotov might be able to postpone it for two or three months, but in the meantime it was vital to ‘re-teach our army and our commanders. Educate them in the spirit of attack.’ Delivered to young officers as a rhetorical message for the future, this was not a statement of intent. Stalin did not believe that the Red Army would be ready to deal with the Germans until 1942 or perhaps even 1943. Not only had the General Staff not drawn up any plans for an attack on the German forces, it had no plans for a defence against them either. Although the Germans mounted a large and sophisticated deception plan to conceal the true nature of their intentions, Soviet intelligence began to send in accurate reports that the invasion was planned for around 22 June 1941. But Stalin would not listen. Earlier reports that the invasion plans were to become operational on 15 May 1941, though correct at the time, proved wrong when the Germans delayed Barbarossa in order to mount the invasion of Greece and Yugoslavia. Hitler later blamed Mussolini for the consequences, but in fact the weather in East-Central Europe in these weeks would have made an invasion of the Soviet Union inadvisable even had the German Leader not been obliged to step in to rescue his Italian ally from the imbroglio in Southern Europe. The Soviet agents who had made the prediction lost all credibility as a result. The capitalist forces in Britain, including the exiled Polish government, seemed to Stalin’s narrow and suspicious mind to be feeding false information to him about German intentions in order to lure him into a battle. Surely in any case the German Leader would not invade while the conflict with Britain was still unresolved. When an ex-Communist soldier deserted the German forces on 21 June 1941 and swam across a river to tell the Russians on the other side that his unit had been given orders to invade the following morning, Stalin had him shot for spreading ‘disinformation’.` - The Third Reich at war, Richard Evans, 2009
- The Red Army had little time to correct its numerous deficiencies before Nazi Germany and other Axis countries allied with it swept across the newly relocated Soviet border on June 22, 1941, in the opening stages of Operation Barbarossa.
    - `The twenty-second of June 1941 is one of the most significant days in the history of Europe. The German invasion of the Soviet Union that began that day under the cryptonym Operation Barbarossa was much more than a surprise attack, a shift of alliances, or a new stage in a war. It was the beginning of a calamity that defies description. The engagement of the Wehrmacht (and its allies) with the Red Army killed more than ten million soldiers, not to speak of the comparable number of civilians who died in flight, under bombs, or of hunger and disease as a result of the war on the eastern front` - Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin, Timothy Snyder, 2010
- Hitler thought Stalin was the safer option to side with compared to the Polish.
    - `Hitler himself later explained his failure to conclude a new nonaggression pact with Poland by his lack of confidence in the Poles. They were within striking distance of vital industrial areas in eastern Germany and Bohemia, and he believed they would take the first possible opportunity to stab Germany in the back. Stalin, who in Hitlers opinion could not risk a war under any circumstances, was in that respect a safer treaty partner, as well as being several hundred kilometers farther removed from the German border. Once Hitler had convinced himself he could not rely on Poland, he evidently decided Poland would have to eliminated before he took action against the West. Just when he made the decision to attack Poland, however, is difficult to determine.` - Hitler's war aims, Norman Rich, 1992
- Hitler expected the Operation to not take as much time as it did.
    - `Operation Barbarossa was supposed to be quick and decisive, bringing a “lightning victory” within three months at the latest. Yet while the Red Army fell back, it did not collapse.` - Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin, Timothy Snyder, 2010
- During the initial stages of the war, Soviet forces were often ordered to stand their ground despite limited defensive capabilities, resulting in numerous encirclements and correspondingly high numbers of casualties.
    - `The organization of the camps in the east revealed a contempt for life, the life of Slavs and Asians and Jews anyway, that made such mass starvation thinkable. In German prisoner-of-war camps for Red Army soldiers, the death rate over the course of the war was 57.5 percent. In the first eight months after Operation Barbarossa, it must have been far higher. In German prisoner-of-war camps for soldiers of the western Allies, the death rate was less than five percent.` - Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin, Timothy Snyder, 2010