## 1951-53 Doctors Plot Affair
- The "doctors' plot" affair was an alleged conspiracy of prominent Soviet medical specialists to murder leading government and party officials. In 1951–1953, a group of predominantly Jewish doctors from Moscow were accused of a conspiracy to assassinate Soviet leaders.
- This was later accompanied by publications of antisemitic character in the media, which talked about the threats of Zionism and condemned people with Jewish surnames. Following this, many doctors, both Jews and non-Jews, were dismissed from their jobs, arrested, and tortured to produce admissions.
    - `A propaganda offensive accompanied the plans to deport—“for their own good”—the Jewish population. One million copies of a pamphlet were prepared for distribution—its title: “Why Jews Must Be Resettled from the Industrial Regions of the Country.” The deportation was purportedly “in response” to a carefully orchestrated letter prepared for Pravda and signed by many terrified Soviet Jewish leaders, imploring “The Father of all the Peoples” to deport the Jews for their own protection.` - [The Soviet "Doctors' Plot" - 50 years on, A Mark Clarfield, 2002](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1136/bmj.325.7378.1487)
- A few weeks after the death of Stalin, the new Soviet leadership said there was a lack of evidence regarding the doctors' plot and the case was dropped. Soon after, it was declared that the case had been a fabrication.
    - `For Stalin, whose deeds easily matched those of Hitler and whose deceits had been evident throughout his life, the Doctors’ Plot and intended show trial were meant to cleanse the Soviet Union of “foreign,” “cosmopolitan,” and “Zionist” (read Jewish) elements. In fact, it was the only one of Stalin’s show trials that did not come off—only because he died just before the spectacle was to begin.` - [The Soviet "Doctors' Plot" - 50 years on, A Mark Clarfield, 2002](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1136/bmj.325.7378.1487)
- In his 1956 "Secret Speech", First Secretary Nikita Khrushchev stated that the doctors' plot was "fabricated... set up by Stalin," but that Stalin did not "have the time in which to bring it to an end," which saved the doctors' lives. Khrushchev also told the session that Stalin called the judge in the case and, regarding the methods to be used, stated "beat, beat and, beat again.” Stalin supposedly told his Minister of State Security, "If you do not obtain confessions from the doctors we will shorten you by a head." According to Khrushchev, Stalin told Politburo members, "You are blind like young kittens. What will happen without me? The country will perish because you do not know how to recognize enemies.” [The Crimes Of The Stalin Era, Special Report To The 20th Congress Of The Communist Party Of The Soviet Union, Nikita Khrushchev](https://web.archive.org/web/20051107221432/http://www.uwm.edu/Course/448-343/index12.html)