## 1954 Transfer of Crimea
- In 1954, the Crimean Oblast was incorporated into the Ukrainian SSR following administrative action of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. The action was attributed to Nikita Khrushchev, then-First Secretary of the Communist Party.
    - `The agenda of the session of the Presidium of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, which took place January 25, 1954, contained a question about the delivery of the Crimean region to the structure of the Ukrainian SSR. The discussion of the question took only 15 minutes. The participants of the meeting approved the decree, and the region was given away to Ukraine for free. Not a single protest was made; no one had any doubts about the decision. No one wondered how the population (presumably the Russian-speaking population) of Crimea would treat the decision. It turned out that such important issues as the territorial movement of regions could be solved without any difficulties at all.` - [USSR's Nikita Khrushchev gave Russia’s Crimea away to Ukraine in only 15 minutes, Pravda, 2009](https://english.pravda.ru/history/107129-ussr_crimea_ukraine/)
- On 20 February 2014, during a visit to Moscow, Chairman of the Supreme Council of Crimea Vladimir Konstantinov stated that the 1954 transfer of Crimea from the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic to the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic had been a mistake.
	- `February 20 Vladimir Konstantinov, Head of Crimean Parliament, announces in Moscow the need to denounce the resolution of the Presidium of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union on the transfer of Crimea to Ukraine` [The Chronicles of Alienation, The Ukrainian Week, 2015](https://ukrainianweek.com/Politics/132098)