## 1991 Gorbachev’s General Secretary Resignation
- On August 24, 1991, Gorbachev resigned as the general secretary the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and dissolved all party units in the government. Five days later, the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union indefinitely suspended all CPSU activity on Soviet territory
    - `The secretariat, the Politburo of the Central Committee of the CPSU did not oppose the coup. The Central Committee failed to take a resolute position of condemnation and opposition, did not rouse the communists to fight against the violation of constitutional legality. Among the conspirators were members of the party leadership, a number of party committees and the media supported the actions of state criminals. This put the communists in a false position. Many members of the party refused to cooperate with the conspirators, condemned the coup and joined the struggle against it. No one has the moral right to indiscriminately accuse all communists, and I, as the President, consider myself obliged to protect them as citizens from unfounded accusations. In this situation, the Central Committee of the CPSU must take a difficult but honest decision to dissolve itself. The fate of the republican communist parties and local party organizations will be determined by them themselves. I do not consider it possible for myself to continue to perform the functions of the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the CPSU and I am resigning the relevant powers. I believe that democratically minded communists, who have remained faithful to constitutional legality and the course of renewing society, will come out in favor of creating a party on a new basis that, together with all progressive forces, will be able to actively engage in the continuation of fundamental democratic changes in the interests of working people.` - Gorbachev [link](https://web.archive.org/web/20110927154108/http://www.illuminats.ru/component/content/article/29-new/1198-statement-by-mikhail-gorbachev-on-the-addition-of-duties-the-secretary-general-of-the-cpsu-24-august-1991?directory=29)