# Background
- On 13 February 2025, The New York Times reported that the National Labor Relations Board was suing Musk's X/Twitter for its large job cuts and Tesla for racial harassment. 
	- `On its own, the National Labor Relations Board, an independent watchdog agency for workers’ rights, has 24 investigations into Mr. Musk’s companies, according to the review by The Times.` - [Elon Musk’s Business Empire Scores Benefits Under Trump Shake-Up, The New York Times, 2025](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/02/11/us/politics/elon-musk-companies-conflicts.html/)
	- `At two federal watchdog agencies for workers, the actions by Mr. Trump have a clear effect on Mr. Musk’s business empire, as well as countless other companies that have matters before them.`
	  
	  `The firings at the agencies, the National Labor Relations Board and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, mean neither has a quorum on its board to decide cases.`
	  
	  `One of the many N.L.R.B. investigations involves Mr. Musk’s companies’ sweeping job cuts in 2022 at his social media platform X, then called Twitter.`
	  
	  `Twitter employees at the time banded together to talk about what was going on at work, on Slack software and on the messaging app Signal. Twitter tried to get ahold of the communications and even surveilled some employees, according to copies of the N.L.R.B. charges obtained through public records requests.`
	  
	  `The matter is being reviewed by N.L.R.B. staff, but the board’s current construct could trouble its path forward or prevent a decision against X from being enforced.`
	  
	  `Even if Mr. Trump replaces the absent board member, that would be likely to significantly shift the balance of the board more Republican, according to four people familiar with the agency.`
	  
	  `Shannon Liss-Riordan, a lawyer representing the Twitter workers, said she is worried that the changes at the N.L.R.B. could affect those specific charges.`
	  
	  `“If I were a betting person, this is not exactly where I’m hanging my hat today,” she said.`
	  
	  `In 2023, the E.E.O.C. separately sued Tesla, alleging widespread and “ongoing racial harassment of its Black employees” and retaliation.`
	  
	  `The litigation has been a thorn in Tesla’s side. Last year, a judge ruled against the company’s move to dismiss the lawsuit despite the company’s argument that “Black workers can and do thrive at Tesla.”` - [Elon Musk’s Business Empire Scores Benefits Under Trump Shake-Up, The New York Times, 2025](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/02/11/us/politics/elon-musk-companies-conflicts.html/)
# Main Info
- On 28 January 2025, Trump fired the Chair of the National Labor Relations Board, Gwynne Wilcox.
	- `Donald Trump has fired a senior official at the top US labor watchdog, triggering a chorus of criticism from unions and in effect paralyzing the body until a replacement is confirmed.`
	  
	  `Gwynne Wilcox, a member and former chair of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), described her dismissal as “unprecedented and illegal” and pledged to challenge the move.`
	  
	  `Her removal leaves the board with only two members, and leaves it without a quorum of three members required to issue decisions, per a 2010 supreme court ruling.`
	  
	  `Wilcox was confirmed by the Senate, and her term was due to continue until August 2028. She had been appointed chair of the NLRB by Biden last month, before Trump appointed Marvin Kaplan, a Republican-appointed member, as chair last week.` - [Trump fires senior labor board official in ‘unprecedented and illegal’ move, The Guardian, 2025](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2025/jan/28/gwynne-wilcox-trump-labor-board)
	- `It’s been the greatest honor and privilege to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board and to work alongside such talented and dedicated federal employees. We have accomplished so much through our robust education, protection, and enforcement efforts, including empowering workers to collectively seek improved wages, benefits and working conditions from their employers. There’s no putting that genie back in the bottle. So, if the Agency does not fully effectuate its Congressional mandate in the future as we did during my tenure, I expect that workers with assistance from their advocates will take matters into their own hands in order to get well-deserved dignity and respect in the workplace, as well as a fair share of the significant value they add to their employer’s operations.` - [Statement from Departing NLRB General Counsel Jennifer Abruzzo, National Labor Relations Board, 2025](https://www.nlrb.gov/news-outreach/news-story/statement-from-departing-nlrb-general-counsel-jennifer-abruzzo)

# Lawsuit
- On 5 February 2025, Wilcox sued the Trump Administration and the new NLRB Chair for her illegal dismissal.
	- `In open disregard of the NLRB’s for-cause removal provision, President Trump then removed Ms. Wilcox from her position as a member of the Board on Monday, January 27. In a late-night email sent on behalf of the President, the Deputy Director of the White House Presidential Personnel Office—the division of the White House responsible for political appointments—stated that Ms. Wilcox (whom the email incorrectly calls “Commissioners [sic] Wilcox”) is “hereby removed from the office of Member of the National Labor Relations Board.” See Ex. 1 (email from Trent Morse). The President’s decision to remove Ms. Wilcox is unprecedented. In the 90 years since Congress passed the NLRA, no President has previously attempted to remove a member of the Board.`
	  
	  `Ms. Wilcox was never given a “notice and hearing” before her removal, as required by 29 U.S.C. § 153(a).`
	  
	  `Rather than identifying any “neglect of duty or malfeasance in office,” as required by section 153(a), the email cites the President’s belief that “heads of agencies within the Executive Branch must share the objectives of [his] administration”—a blatantly political purpose that flies in the face of the NLRB’s independent status. Although the email acknowledges that “the National Labor Relations Act purports to limit removal of Board members to ‘neglect of duty or malfeasance in office,’” it asserts that “this limitation is inconsistent with the vesting of the executive Power in the President.”` - [Wilcox V. Trump Et Al (Complaint For Declaratory and Injunctive Relief), United States District Court for the District of Columbia, 2025](https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.dcd.277129/gov.uscourts.dcd.277129.1.0_2.pdf)
- On 6 March 2025, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that Trump’s abrupt firing of a former senior official at the top US labor watchdog was illegal, and ordered that she be reinstated.
	- `To start, the Framers made clear that no one in our system of government was meant to be king—the President included—and not just in name only. See U.S. CONST. art. I, § 9, cl. 8 (“No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States.”). Indeed, the very structure of the Constitution was designed to ensure no one branch of government had absolute power, despite the perceived inefficiencies, inevitable delays, and seemingly anti-democratic consequences that may flow from the checks and balances foundational to our constitutional system of governance.` - [Wilcox V. Trump Et Al (Memorandum Opinion), United States District Court for the District of Columbia, 2025](https://ecf.dcd.uscourts.gov/cgi-bin/show_public_doc?2025cv0334-35)
	- `The President seems intent on pushing the bounds of his office and exercising his power in a manner violative of clear statutory law to test how much the courts will accept the notion of a presidency that is supreme. Defendants cite in their briefing Trump v. United States, 603 U.S. 593, 608-09 (2024) (granting the President absolute and presumptive immunity from criminal liability for “official acts”), to argue that the removal power is “conclusive and preclusive,” with the result that the President need not be subject to criminal or civil legislative constraints. Defs.’ Reply at 7. The courts are now again forced to determine how much encroachment on the legislature our Constitution can bear and face a slippery slope toward endorsing a presidency that is untouchable by the law. The President has given no sufficient reason to accept that path here.`
	  
	  `Humphrey’s Executor and its progeny control the outcome of this case and require that plaintiff be permitted to continue her role as Board member of the NLRB and her termination declared unlawful and void. The Constitution and caselaw are clear in allowing Congress to limit the President’s removal power and in allowing the courts to enjoin the executive branch from unlawful action. Defendants’ hyperbolic characterization that legislative and judicial checks on executive authority, as invoked by plaintiff, present “extraordinary intrusion[s] on the executive branch,” Defs.’ Opp’n at 1, is both incorrect and troubling. Under our constitutional system, such checks, by design, guard against executive overreach and the risk such overreach would pose of autocracy. See Myers, 272 U.S. at 293 (Brandeis, J., dissenting). An American President is not a king—not even an “elected” one—and his power to remove federal officers and honest civil servants like plaintiff is not absolute, but may be constrained in appropriate circumstances, as are present here.`
	  
	  `An order consistent with this Memorandum Opinion will be entered contemporaneously.` - [Wilcox V. Trump Et Al (Memorandum Opinion), United States District Court for the District of Columbia, 2025](https://ecf.dcd.uscourts.gov/cgi-bin/show_public_doc?2025cv0334-35)
`