[Trump Killed 11 Alleged Drug Traffickers. Is This Murder? - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7t-_m16y25o)
[Unequivocal War Crimes - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ox-fhnkBrkI)
# Background
- Charter of the United Nations, Article 2, Point 4
	- `All Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations` - [Charter of the United Nations, United Nations, 1945](https://untso.unmissions.org/sites/default/files/united_nations_charter.pdf)
- Geneva Convention, Relative to the Treatment Of Prisoners of War Of 12 August 1949, Article 3, Conflicts not of an international character.
	- `Article 3`
	  
	  `In the case of armed conflict not of an international character occurring in the territory of one of the High Contracting Parties, each Party to the conflict shall be bound to apply, as a minimum, the following provisions:`
	  
	  `1) Persons taking no active part in the hostilities, including members of armed forces who have laid down their arms and those placed hors de combat by sickness, wounds, detention, or any other cause, shall in all circumstances be treated humanely, without any adverse distinction founded on race, colour, religion or faith, sex, birth or wealth, or any other similar criteria.`
	  
	  `To this end, the following acts are and shall remain prohibited at any time and in any place whatsoever with respect to the above-mentioned persons:`
	  
	  `a) violence to life and person, in particular murder of all kinds, mutilation, cruel treatment and torture;`
	  
	  `b) taking of hostages;`
	  
	  `c) outrages upon personal dignity, in particular, humiliating and degrading treatment;`
	  
	  `d) the passing of sentences and the carrying out of executions without previous judgment pronounced by a regularly constituted court affording all the judicial guarantees which are recognized as indispensable by civilized peoples.` - [Geneva Convention Of 12 August 1949, The International Committee of the Red Cross](https://www.icrc.org/sites/default/files/external/doc/en/assets/files/publications/icrc-002-0173.pdf)
- War Crimes Act of 1996.
	- `"(a) OFFENSE.—^Whoever, whether inside or outside the United States, commits a grave breach of the Geneva Conventions, in any of the circumstances described in subsection (b), shall be fined under this title or imprisoned for life or any term of years, or both, and if death results to the victim, shall also be subject to the penalty of death.`
	  
	  `"(b) CIRCUMSTANCES.—^The circumstances referred to in subsection (a) are that the person committing such breach or the victim of such breach is a member of the Armed Forces of the United States or a national of the United States (as defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act).`
	  
	  `"(c) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section, the term 'grave breach of the Geneva Conventions' means conduct defined ar a grave breach in any of the international conventions relating to the laws of warfare signed at Geneva 12 August 1949 or any protocol to any such convention, to which the United States is a party.".` - [War Crimes Act of 1996, U.S Congress, 1996](https://www.congress.gov/104/statute/STATUTE-110/STATUTE-110-Pg2104.pdf)
- Office of Legal Counsel Memo, April 2018 Airstrikes Against Syrian Chemical-Weapons Facilities.
	- `We now explain our analysis of the April 13, 2018 Syrian strikes in light of our precedents. In evaluating whether a proposed military action falls within the President’s authority under Article II of the Constitution, we have distilled our precedents into two inquiries. First, we consider whether the President could reasonably determine that the action serves important national interests. See, e.g., Somalia Deployment, 16 O.L.C. at 9 (“At the core of this power is the President’s authority to take military action to protect American citizens, property, and interests from foreign threats.”); British Flying Students, 40 Op. Att’y Gen. at 62 (“[T]he President’s authority has long been recognized as extending to the dispatch of armed forces outside of the United States, either on missions of good will or rescue, or for purposes of protecting American lives or property or American interests.”). Second, we consider whether the “anticipated nature, scope, and duration” of the conflict might rise to the level of a war under the Constitution. See Libya Deployment, 35 Op. O.L.C. at 31 (quoting Haiti Deployment I, 18 Op. O.L.C. at 179). Prior to the Syrian strikes, we applied this framework to conclude that the proposed Syrian operation would fall within the President’s constitutional authority.`
	  
	  `This Office has recognized that a broad set of interests would justify use of the President’s Article II authority to direct military force. These interests understandably grant the President a great deal of discretion. The scope of U.S. involvement in the world, the presence of U.S. citizens across the globe, and U.S. leadership in times of conflict, crisis, and strife require that the President have wide latitude to protect American interests by responding to regional conflagrations and humanitarian catastrophes as he believes appropriate. The Commander in Chief bears great responsibility for the use of the armed forces and for putting U.S. forces in harm’s way. We would not expect that any President would use this power without a substantial basis for believing that a proposed operation is necessary to advance important interests of the Nation. The aim of this inquiry is not to evaluate the worth of the interests at stake—a question more of policy than of law—but rather, to set forth the justifications for the President’s use of military force and to situate those interests within a framework of prior precedents.`
	  
	  `In our past opinions, this Office has identified a number of different interests that have supported sending U.S. forces into harm’s way, including the following:`
	  
	  `the protection of U.S. persons and property, see, e.g., Presidential Power, 4A Op. O.L.C. at 187 (“Presidents have repeatedly employed troops abroad in defense of American lives and property.”); Haiti Deployment II, 28 Op. O.L.C. at 31 (“The President has the authority to deploy the armed forces abroad in order to protect American citizens and interests from foreign threats.”);`
	  
	  `assistance to allies, see, e.g., Haiti Deployment I, 18 Op. O.L.C. at 79 (approving of intervention “at the invitation of a fully legitimate government”); Presidential Power, 4A Op. O.L.C. at 187–88 (citing the Korean War as “precedent . . . for the commitment of United States armed forces, without prior congressional approval or declaration of war, to aid an ally in repelling an armed invasion”);`
	  
	  `support for the United Nations, see, e.g., Haiti Deployment II, 28 Op. O.L.C. at 33 (“Another American interest in Haiti arises from the involvement of the United Nations in the situation there.”); Somalia Deployment, 16 Op. O.L.C. at 11 (“[M]aintaining the credibility of United Nations Security Council decisions, protecting the security of United Nations and related relief efforts, and ensuring the effectiveness of United Nations peacekeeping operations can be considered a vital national interest[.]”); and`
	  
	  `promoting regional stability, see, e.g., Haiti Deployment II, 29 Op. O.L.C. at 32 (“The President also may determine that the deployment is necessary to protect American foreign policy interests. One such interest is the preservation of regional stability.”); Libya Deployment, 35 Op. O.L.C. at 36 (“[W]e believe the President could` - [April 2018 Airstrikes Against Syrian Chemical-Weapons Facilities, Office of Legal Counsel, 2018](https://www.justice.gov/olc/opinion/file/1067551/dl)
- Executive Order 14157.
	- `The Cartels have engaged in a campaign of violence and terror throughout the Western Hemisphere that has not only destabilized countries with significant importance for our national interests but also flooded the United States with deadly drugs, violent criminals, and vicious gangs.`
	  
	  `The Cartels functionally control, through a campaign of assassination, terror, rape, and brute force nearly all illegal traffic across the southern border of the United States.  In certain portions of Mexico, they function as quasi-governmental entities, controlling nearly all aspects of society.  The Cartels’ activities threaten the safety of the American people, the security of the United States, and the stability of the international order in the Western Hemisphere.  Their activities, proximity to, and incursions into the physical territory of the United States pose an unacceptable national security risk to the United States.`
	  
	  `(b)  Other transnational organizations, such as Tren de Aragua (TdA) and La Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) pose similar threats to the United States.  Their campaigns of violence and terror in the United States and internationally are extraordinarily violent, vicious, and similarly threaten the stability of the international order in the Western Hemisphere.`
	  
	  `(c)  The Cartels and other transnational organizations, such as TdA and MS-13, operate both within and outside the United States.  They present an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.  I hereby declare a national emergency, under IEEPA, to deal with those threats.` - [Designating Cartels And Other Organizations As Foreign Terrorist Organizations And Specially Designated Global Terrorists, The White House, 2025](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/designating-cartels-and-other-organizations-as-foreign-terrorist-organizations-and-specially-designated-global-terrorists/)
# Main Point
- On 2 September 2025, Trump announced that a military vessel struck and sank a speedboat that it alleged was smuggling drugs from Venezuela to the United States during a high-seas interdiction mission.
	- `Earlier this morning, on my Orders, U.S. Military Forces conducted a kinetic strike against positively identified Tren de Aragua Narcoterrorists in the SOUTHCOM area of responsibility. TDA is a designated Foreign Terrorist Organization, operating under the control of Nicolas Maduro, responsible for mass murder, drug trafficking, sex trafficking, and acts of violence and terror across the United States and Western Hemisphere. The strike occurred while the terrorists were at sea in International waters transporting illegal narcotics, heading to the United States. The strike resulted in 11 terrorists killed in action. No U.S. Forces were harmed in this strike. Please let this serve as notice to anybody even thinking about bringing drugs into the United States of America. BEWARE! Thank you for your attention to this matter!!!!!!!!!!!` - [@realDonaldTrump Post, Truth Social, 2025](https://truthsocial.com/@realDonaldTrump/posts/115136798909755892)
- On 2 September 2025, Secretary of State Marco Rubio stated that the boat was not heading for the United States, contradicting Trump.
	- `“The president is very clear that he’s going to use the full power of America, the full might of the United States, to take on and eradicate these drug cartels, no matter where they’re operating from, and no matter how long they’ve been able to act with impunity,” said Secretary of State Marco Rubio before boarding a plane in Florida to head to Mexico.`
	  
	  `In a deviation from Mr. Trump’s account, however, Mr. Rubio said that the vessel’s destination was probably Trinidad or another country in the Caribbean.` - [Trump Says U.S. Attacked Boat Carrying Venezuelan Gang Members, Killing 11, The New York Times, 2025](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/09/02/us/politics/trump-venezuela-boat-drugs-attack.html)
- On 2 September 2025, JD Vance tweeted that the military strikes being conducted was the best use of the military. A reply stated that this was a war crime, Vance responded with `I don’t give a shit what you call it`.
	- `Killing cartel members who poison our fellow citizens is the highest and best use of our military.` - [@JDVance Tweet, Twitter (X), 2025](https://x.com/JDVance/status/1964341094226743787)
	- `Killing the citizens of another nation who are civilians without any due process is called a war crime.` - [@krassenstein Reply Tweet, Twitter (X), 2025](https://x.com/krassenstein/status/1964341267568984402)
	- `I don’t give a shit what you call it` - [@JDVance Reply Tweet, Twitter (X), 2025](https://x.com/JDVance/status/1964341436096057502)
- On 4 September 2025, in compliance with the War Powers Resolution of 1973, Trump provided a report to congress to notify them of current hostilities. the report cited to the presidents broad Article 2 constitutional powers as the Commander in Chief with no mention of any specifics about who was targeted and killed or their participation in any prior armed attack or imminent attack, which is required in the War Powers Resolution of 1973. And although the boat was supposed to be affiliated with Tren de Aragua, that detail is omitted here. The summary of what the boat was doing. Illicit trafficking does not say what was being trafficked and where it was going, ignoring the 2018 OLC memo. 
	- `Dear Mr. President:`
	  
	  `I write to apprise you of military action taken on September 2, 2025, in the Caribbean Sea and of the potential for further such actions.`
	  
	  `Extraordinarily violent drug trafficking cartels that the United States has designated as terrorist organizations have wrought devastating consequences on American communities for decades, causing the deaths of tens of thousands of United States citizens each year and threatening our national security and foreign policy interests both at home and abroad. These organizations have evolved into complex structures with the financial means and paramilitary capabilities needed to operate with impunity, engaging in violence and terrorism that threaten the United States and destabilize other nations in our own Hemisphere. Friendly foreign nations have made significant efforts to combat these organizations, suffering significant losses of life due to organized violence at the hands of the groups designated as terrorist organizations, but these groups are now transnational and operate throughout the Western Hemisphere.`
	  
	  `In the face of the inability or unwillingness of some states in the region to address the continuing threat to United States persons and interests emanating from their territories, we have now reached a critical point where we must meet this threat to our citizens and our most vital national interests with United States military force in self-defense. Accordingly, at my direction, on September 2, 2025, United States forces struck a vessel at a location beyond the territorial seas of any nation that was assessed to be affiliated with a designated terrorist organization and to be engaged in illicit drug trafficking activities.`
	  
	  `It is not possible at this time to know the full scope and duration of military operations that will be necessary. United States forces remain postured to carry out further military operations.`
	  
	  `I am providing this report as part Of my efforts to keep the Congress fully informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law 93-148). I directed these actions consistent with my responsibility to protect Americans and United States interests abroad and in furtherance of United States national security and foreign policy interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive to conduct United States foreign relations. I appreciate the support of the Congress in this action.` - [Report 20250904A, The White House, 2025](https://assets.ctfassets.net/6hn51hpulw83/iOdLcVg6XVHorL4Rv5rWr/9a116b4c89cb06efee02dcd6df96bba1/20250904-Trump.pdf)
- On 5 September 2025, Hegseth told reporters that Tren de Aragua is no different to al-Qaida.
	- `Days after the U.S. military [destroyed a boat in the Caribbean](https://taskandpurpose.com/news/drug-boat-southern-caribbean/) that it claimed was being used to smuggle drugs, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said that the legal basis for the strike lay in the status of the traffickers as an “imminent threat” to the United States.`
	  
	  `“A foreign terrorist organization poisoning your people with drugs coming from a drug cartel is no different than al-Qaida — and they’ll be treated as such, as they were in international waters,” Hegseth told reporters on Thursday.` - [Drug cartels are 'no different than al-Qaida,' Hegseth says, Task & Purpose, 2025](https://taskandpurpose.com/news/military-drug-cartels-terrorists/)
- On 28 November 2025, The Washington Post reported that Department of War Secretary Pete Hegseth ordered all people suspected of ferrying drugs to be killed. Due to this verbal command, the 2 September incident actually featured two separate strikes on the boat featured in the Trump Truth Social post.
	- `The longer the U.S. surveillance aircraft followed the boat, the more confident intelligence analysts watching from command centers became that the 11 people on board were ferrying drugs.`
	  
	  `Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth gave a spoken directive, according to two people with direct knowledge of the operation. “The order was to kill everybody,” one of them said.`
	  
	  `A missile screamed off the Trinidad coast, striking the vessel and igniting a blaze from bow to stern. For minutes, commanders watched the boat burning on a live drone feed. As the smoke cleared, they got a jolt: Two survivors were clinging to the smoldering wreck.`
	  
	  `The Special Operations commander overseeing the Sept. 2 attack — the opening salvo in the Trump administration’s war on suspected drug traffickers in the Western Hemisphere — ordered a second strike to comply with Hegseth’s instructions, two people familiar with the matter said. The two men were blown apart in the water.`
	  
	  `Hegseth’s order, which has not been previously reported, adds another dimension to the campaign against suspected drug traffickers. Some current and former U.S. officials and law-of-war experts have said that the Pentagon’s lethal campaign — which has killed more than 80 people to date — is unlawful and may expose those most directly involved to future prosecution.` - [Hegseth order on first Caribbean boat strike, officials say: Kill them all, Washington Post, 2025](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2025/11/28/hegseth-kill-them-all-survivors-boat-strike)
- On 28 November 2025, Hegseth tweeted that the Washington Post story was fake news and that the strikes were lawful under U.S. and International Law.
	- `As usual, the fake news is delivering more fabricated, inflammatory, and derogatory reporting to discredit our incredible warriors fighting to protect the homeland.`
	  
	  `As we’ve said from the beginning, and in every statement, these highly effective strikes are specifically intended to be “lethal, kinetic strikes.” The declared intent is to stop lethal drugs, destroy narco-boats, and kill the narco-terrorists who are poisoning the American people. Every trafficker we kill is affiliated with a Designated Terrorist Organization.`
	  
	  `The Biden administration preferred the kid gloves approach, allowing millions of people — including dangerous cartels and unvetted Afghans — to flood our communities with drugs and violence. The Trump administration has sealed the border and gone on offense against narco-terrorists. Biden coddled terrorists, we kill them.`
	  
	  `Our current operations in the Caribbean are lawful under both U.S. and international law, with all actions in compliance with the law of armed conflict—and approved by the best military and civilian lawyers, up and down the chain of command.`
	  
	  `Our warriors in SOUTHCOM put their lives on the line every day to protect the Homeland from narco-terrorists — and I will ALWAYS have their back.` - [@SecWar Tweet, Twitter (X), 2025](https://x.com/SecWar/status/1994552598142038358)
- On 2 December 2025, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt confirmed that there was a second strike and that the Head of the Joint Special Operations Command, Admiral Frank Bradley worked within his authority.
	- `The White House confirmed Monday that the U.S. did launch a second strike on an alleged drug boat from Venezuela in early September and that it was ordered by Adm. Frank M. Bradley, who at the time headed the Joint Special Operations Command.`
	  
	  `The follow-up strike killed the survivors of an initial U.S. strike on the vessel, which the Trump administration has said originated from Venezuela. Some lawmakers and legal experts say that second attack could constitute a war crime.`
	  
	  `“With respect to the strikes in question on Sept. 2, Secretary Hegseth authorized Adm. Bradley to conduct these kinetic strikes,” White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said in a statement during Monday's briefing.`
	  
	  `“Adm. Bradley worked well within his authority and the law directing the engagement to ensure the boat was destroyed and the threat to the United States of America was eliminated," she added.`
	  
	  `U.S. Special Operations Command, which Bradley now leads as commander, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.` - [White House confirms second Sept. 2 strike on alleged drug boat, NBC News, 2025](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/white-house-confirms-second-sept-2-strike-alleged-drug-boat-rcna246834)
# Lawsuit
- On 20 January 2025
	- ` ` - 