### 2017 ‘Muslim’ Travel Ban
- Trump ordered a travel ban on citizens from several Muslim-majority countries, citing security concerns. The signing of the order provoked widespread condemnation and protests and resulted in legal intervention against the enforcement of the order with some calling it a `Muslim ban` because Trump had previously called for temporarily banning Muslims from entering America soon after the 2015 San Bernardino terrorist attack, and because all of the affected countries had a Muslim majority. [link](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-41382585)
- Trump stated he picked up on these fears, speaking frequently of Christians who were refused entry to the United States and beheaded by terrorists of the Islamic State: `If you’re a Christian, you have no chance,` he said in Ohio in November. [[christianleadersdenouncetrum]]
- Trump's stated reason for issuing the executive order was to prevent terrorism. An internal report compiled by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Intelligence and Analysis Unit, however, concluded that people from the seven nations affected by the travel ban pose no increased terror risk. The report found that `country of citizenship is unlikely to be a reliable indicator of potential terrorist activity` and that few individuals from the seven affected countries access the U.S. in any case, since the State Department grants a small number of visas to citizens of those countries.` The report found that of 82 people determined to have inspired by a foreign terrorist organization `to carry out or try to carry out an attack in the United States, just over half were U.S. citizens born in the United States,` while the rest came from a group of 26 countries, only two of which were among the seven nations included in the ban [link](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/25/us/politics/travel-ban-nations-terror-risk.html) [link](http://bigstory.ap.org/article/39f1f8e4ceed4a30a4570f693291c866/dhs-intel-report-disputes-threat-posed-travel-ban-nations)
- Biden Is in support of `Rescind the un-American travel and refugee bans, also referred to as “Muslim bans.” The Trump Administration’s anti-Muslim bias hurts our economy, betrays our values, and can serve as a powerful terrorist recruiting tool. Prohibiting Muslims from entering the country is morally wrong, and there is no intelligence or evidence that suggests it makes our nation more secure. It is yet another abuse of power by the Trump Administration designed to target primarily black and brown immigrants. Biden will immediately rescind the “Muslim bans.”` [link](https://joebiden.com/immigration/)