### 2020 Trump’s Firing Rick A. Bright and `#FireFauci` Retweet
- Rick A. Bright, commonly cited as the Top Infectious-Disease Expert in the U.S, was abruptly fired from his job because he insisted that the federal government rely on science when making scientific decisions. Bright said in a statement yesterday that he was fired, in particular, because he insisted that hydroxychloroquine, the anti-malaria drug Trump has repeatedly touted as a `miracle cure` for covid-19, be tested rigorously. [link](https://www.newyorker.com/news/daily-comment/trumps-firing-of-a-top-infectious-disease-expert-endangers-us-all) Bright formally filed an extensive whistleblower complaint because of these circumstances. `I was pressured to let politics and cronyism drive decisions over the opinions of the best scientists we have in government,` Bright said on a call with reporters after filing his complaint. [link](https://edition.cnn.com/2020/05/05/politics/rick-bright-complaint/index.html)
- A spokesman for a key House panel said that the White House had blocked Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, from testifying at a hearing in congress on the coronavirus outbreak. House Appropriations Committee spokesman Evan Hollander said the panel sought Fauci — the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases — as a witness for a subcommittee hearing on the government’s response to the pandemic, but was denied. Hollander said the panel was informed by an administration official that Fauci’s testimony was blocked by the White House.Fauci has warned against relaxing social distancing rules that have helped slow the spread of the virus but caused a major hit to the economy. That has earned him criticism from some of Trump’s most ardent supporters, and the president has retweeted a supporter’s remark calling for Fauci’s firing. [link](https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2020-05-01/white-house-blocking-fauci-testimony-panel-spokesman-says)
- Fauci conceded to CNN that earlier mitigation efforts could have saved more lives and again called for a cautious reopening of the nation, despite Trump’s calls to quickly restart the economy. `I mean, obviously, you could logically say that if you had a process that was ongoing and you started mitigation earlier, you could have saved lives,` Fauci, said on `State of the Union` when asked if social distancing and stay-at-home measures could have prevented deaths had they been put in place in February, instead of mid-March. `Obviously, no one is going to deny that. But what goes into those decisions is complicated,` added Fauci, who is a key member of the Trump administration's coronavirus task force. `But you're right, I mean, obviously, if we had right from the very beginning shut everything down, it may have been a little bit different. But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then.` Trump then retweeted a user who said it was `Time to \#FireFauci` [link](https://edition.cnn.com/2020/04/13/politics/donald-trump-anthony-fauci-tweet/index.html)