[link](https://youtu.be/-QiSWnvrb24?t=2358)
[link](https://www.thetrumparchive.com/)
# Pre-Election
- On 7 April 2020, President Trump first made suggestions to the media that widespread electoral fraud would occur during the 2020 Election especially through the use of mail-in ballots.
    - `"Mail ballots — they cheat. OK? People cheat," he said April 7. "There's a lot of dishonesty going along with mail-in voting."` - [Trump pushes false claims about mail-in vote fraud. Here are the facts, NBC News, 2020](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/trump-pushes-false-claims-about-mail-vote-fraud-here-are-n1180566)
    - `"Mail ballots are a very dangerous thing for this country, because they're cheaters. They go and collect them. They're fraudulent in many cases,” Trump said April 7.` - [Trump pushes false claims about mail-in vote fraud. Here are the facts, NBC News, 2020](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/trump-pushes-false-claims-about-mail-vote-fraud-here-are-n1180566)
- On 8 April 2020, President Trump tweeted in response to the Republican silence accusing Democrats of stoking voter fraud
    - `Republicans should fight very hard when it comes to state wide mail-in voting. Democrats are clamoring for it. Tremendous potential for voter fraud, and for whatever reason, doesn’t work out well for Republicans. @foxandfriends` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2020](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1247861952736526336)
- On 8 April 2020, President Trump tweeted about the alleged difference in Absentee Ballots and Mail-In Ballots.
    - `Absentee Ballots are a great way to vote for the many senior citizens, military, and others who can’t get to the polls on Election Day. These ballots are very different from 100% Mail-In Voting, which is “RIPE for FRAUD,” and shouldn’t be allowed!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2020](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1248031484532928514)
- On 11 April 2020, President Trump tweeted,
    - `Mail in ballots substantially increases the risk of crime and VOTER FRAUD!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2020](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1249132374547464193)
- On 20 May 2020, Trump answered in a press briefing that thousands and thousands of mail-in ballots were fraudulently filled out.
	- `Q Mr. President, what is it that you think that’s happening in Michigan that’s illegal?`
	  
	  `THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think if we’re talking about the mail-in ballots — if people mail in ballots, there’s a lot illegality. They send in ballots that — they harvest ballots. You know all about harvesting. And they do lots of bad things. Ideally, people go out and they vote.`
	  
	  `Now, if you need a mail-in ballot, if you need a specific — like, as an example, I’m in the White House and I have to send a ballot to Florida. That makes sense. So if you need it for some reason or if somebody is not well, that’s one thing.`
	  
	  `But when you send out 7.7 million mail-in ballots, there’s forgeries, there’s, frankly, duplication where they print ballots on the same kind of paper with the same kind of machinery and you can’t tell the difference. And they send in thousands and thousands of fake ballots. And I’ll tell you what: This nation can’t be going down that path because it’s a very dangerous path to go down.`
	  
	  `Now, we just won a big election. You probably heard about this one in California. California-25. Mike Garcia — he just won a very big election. And that was ballots. And it was a very — sort of, the opposite. They won the case for ballots. He was doing very well, because they’re ballots — you see, he was way ahead in an area that, frankly, was not expected to go Republican. The first time in 22 years that it’s happened. They flipped from Democrat to Republican. In California, the first time in 22 years that it happened.`
	  
	  `And they actually put machines in there in the last three days because they thought — meaning, the Democrats — because they thought that might happen, but it didn’t. But that was a case — that was a positive case. But mail-in ballots are very dangerous. There’s tremendous fraud involved and tremendous illegality.` - [Remarks by President Trump in a Meeting with Governor Hutchinson of Arkansas and Governor Kelly of Kansas, The White House, 2020](https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-meeting-governor-hutchinson-arkansas-governor-kelly-kansas/)
- On 24 May 2020, President Trump tweeted,
	- `The United States cannot have all Mail In Ballots. It will be the greatest Rigged Election in history. People grab them from mailboxes, print thousands of forgeries and “force” people to sign. Also, forge names. Some absentee OK, when necessary. Trying to use Covid for this Scam!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2020](https://x.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1264558926021959680)`
- On 19 July 2020, Trump refused to say whether he would accept the results of the election and commit to a peaceful transition of power if he lost.
    - `In the “Fox News Sunday” interview, Wallace asked Trump whether he considers himself a “gracious” loser. Trump replied that he doesn’t like to lose, then added: “It depends. I think mail-in voting is going to rig the election. I really do.” Trump’s comment echoed unfounded claims he has made in recent weeks that mail-in voting is susceptible to widespread fraud. “Are you suggesting that you might not accept the results of the election?” Wallace asked. Trump responded, “No. I have to see.” Later in the interview, pressed on whether he will accept the results of the November election, Trump again declined to say.` - [Trump declines to say whether he will accept November election results, The Washington Post, 2020](https://archive.ph/CItzx)
- On 12 August 2020, the House of Representatives voted for a $25 billion grant to the U.S. Postal Service for the expected surge in mail voting, Trump blocked funding, saying he wanted to prevent any increase in voting by mail.
    - `Trump, who has been railing against mail-in balloting for months, said the cash-strapped agency’s enlarged role in the November election would perpetuate “one of the greatest frauds in history.” Speaking Wednesday at his daily pandemic news briefing, Trump said he would not approve $25 billion in emergency funding for the Postal Service, or $3.5 billion in supplemental funding for election resources, citing prohibitively high costs. “They don’t have the money to do the universal mail-in voting. So therefore, they can’t do it, I guess,” Trump said. “Are they going to do it even if they don’t have the money?”` - [Trump says Postal Service needs money for mail-in voting, but he’ll keep blocking funding, The Washington Post, 2020](https://archive.ph/Ug1yL)
- On 23 September 2020, Trump again refused to say whether he would accept the results of the election and commit to a peaceful transition of power if he lost.
    - `"Well, we're going to have to see what happens," Trump said when asked whether he'd commit to a peaceful transition, one of the cornerstones of American democracy.` - [Trump refuses to commit to a peaceful transition of power after Election Day, CNN, 2020](https://edition.cnn.com/2020/09/23/politics/trump-election-day-peaceful-transition/index.html) 
    - `"You know that I've been complaining very strongly about the ballots and the ballots are a disaster," Trump said at a press briefing at the White House,` - [Trump refuses to commit to a peaceful transition of power after Election Day, CNN, 2020](https://edition.cnn.com/2020/09/23/politics/trump-election-day-peaceful-transition/index.html)  
    - `"(G)et rid of the ballots and you'll have a very ... there won't be a transfer, frankly. There'll be a continuation," he added, saying "the ballots are out of control."` - [Trump refuses to commit to a peaceful transition of power after Election Day, CNN, 2020](https://edition.cnn.com/2020/09/23/politics/trump-election-day-peaceful-transition/index.html)
- On 24 Septem­ber 2020, The FBI Director, Chris­topher Wray, before the U.S. Senate Commit­tee on Home­land Secur­ity and Government Affairs said that:
    - `We have not seen, histor­ic­ally, any kind of coordin­ated national voter fraud effort in a major elec­tion, whether it’s by mail or other­wise.` - [FBI has not seen evidence of widespread voter fraud, Director Wray tells senators, CNBC, 2020](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/09/24/fbi-has-not-seen-evidence-of-widespread-voter-fraud-director-wray-tells-senators.html)
- On 29 Septem­ber 2020, during the first Presidential Debate, Trump claimed that mail-in ballots being sent out pre-emptively were all fraudulently done by the Democrats.
	- `President Donald Trump continued his assault on the integrity of the U.S. elections during the first presidential debate Tuesday, spreading falsehoods about the security of voting and misrepresenting issues with mail ballots.`
	  
	  `In the final segment of the contentious debate between Trump and Democrat Joe Biden, Trump launched into an extended argument against mail voting, claiming without evidence that it is ripe for fraud and suggesting mail ballots may be “manipulated.”`
	  
	  `“This is going to be a fraud like you’ve never seen,” the president said of the massive shift to mail voting prompted by the coronavirus pandemic.` - [Here's the reality behind Trump's claims about mail voting, AP News, 2020](https://apnews.com/article/virus-outbreak-joe-biden-election-2020-donald-trump-elections-3e8170c3348ce3719d4bc7182146b582)
- On 30 October 2020, President Trump tweeted,
    - `The Election should end on November 3rd., not weeks later!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2020](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1322294301183782912)
- On 31 October 2020, Steve Bannon discussed in private that Trump had a plan to declare victory on election night and described how much mayhem will be caused.
	- `Speaking to this group of mostly Chinese immigrants, Bannon explained US electoral processes—and Trump’s plans to exploit them—in some detail. He emphasized that in 2020, Republicans were more likely to vote in person, casting ballots that, in many states, would be counted first. Democrats disproportionately voted by mail. Their ballots would take days to tally in a number of states. That meant that when it came to public perceptions about who was winning, Democrats would “have a natural disadvantage,” Bannon said. “And Trump’s going to take advantage of it. That’s our strategy. He’s gonna declare himself a winner.”`
	  
	  `“So when you wake up Wednesday morning, it’s going to be a firestorm,” Bannon continued. “You’re going to have antifa, crazy. The media, crazy. The courts are crazy. And Trump’s gonna be sitting there mocking, tweeting shit out: ‘You lose. I’m the winner. I’m the king.'”` - [Leaked Audio: Before Election Day, Bannon Said Trump Planned to Falsely Claim Victory, Mother Jones, 2020](https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/07/leaked-audio-steve-bannon-trump-2020-election-declare-victory/)
	- `As a result, any chance for a “peaceful resolution of this is probably gone,” Bannon said. “Because the other three alternatives [are], either Biden’s up slightly and Trump says he stole it, right, and he’s not leaving. Or it’s undefined and we can’t figure out who’s leading, and Trump’s saying he’s stealing it, and he’s not leaving. Or, Trump’s leading, which is the one where they’re gonna burn the city down.”`
	  
	  `Bannon expressed the belief that Trump actually winning would lead to violence by the left. But he also said that Trump falsely claiming he’d won—a strategy Bannon was cheering on—would probably cause violence too. And Bannon emphasized that election night would mark the start of a battle for power in which Trump would try to stop the votes of people who opposed him from being counted, while Democrats would try to use invalid ballots to defeat him. Democrats, Bannon claimed, “steal elections all the time.”ELection Day 2020 would not be like others, Bannon said. “This is a revolution,” he explained. “This election just triggers more fighting.”`
	  
	  `Bannon also said during this meeting that once the voting was done, Trump would be unencumbered by electoral pressure. “Here’s the thing. After then, Trump never has to go to a voter again,” Bannon said. “He’s gonna fire [Christopher] Wray, the FBI director…He’s gonna say ‘Fuck you. How about that?’ Because…he’s done his last election. Oh, he’s going to be off the chain—he’s gonna be crazy.”`
	  
	  `Bannon also said he expected that Trump would quickly fire CIA Director Gina Haspel, Defense Secretary Mark Esper, Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, and Dr. Anthony Fauci.`
	  
	  `“If Trump is losing by 10 or 11 o’clock at night, it’s going to be even crazier. No, because he’s gonna sit right there and say, ‘They stole it. I’m directing the attorney general to shut down all ballot places in all 50 states,'” Bannon said. “He’s not going out easy. If Biden is winning, Trump is going to do some crazy shit.”` - [Leaked Audio: Before Election Day, Bannon Said Trump Planned to Falsely Claim Victory, Mother Jones, 2020](https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/07/leaked-audio-steve-bannon-trump-2020-election-declare-victory/)
- On 1 & 2 November 2020, Roger Stone was recorded by a Danish filmmaker, obtained by the January 6 Committee as result of a subpoena, before the 2020 election making anti-democracy comments as to what Trump will do.
	- `Let's just hope were celebrating. I suspect it'll be, I really do suspect it will still be up in the air, when that happens, the key thing to do is to claim victory. Posession is nine-tenths of the law. No, we won. Fuck you. Sorry. Over. We won. You're wrong. Fuck you.` - [Jan. 6 Committee Shows New Video Of Roger Stone Encouraging Violence Before 2020 Election, MSNBC, 2022](https://youtu.be/IVTrS-hjjLE?si=C4bSCph2N4phMsZh&t=21)
	- `I said, fuck the voting, let's get right to violence` - [Jan. 6 Committee Shows New Video Of Roger Stone Encouraging Violence Before 2020 Election, MSNBC, 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IVTrS-hjjLE&t=39s)
	- `We'll have to start smashing pumkins, if you know what i mean.` - [Jan. 6 Committee Shows New Video Of Roger Stone Encouraging Violence Before 2020 Election, MSNBC, 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IVTrS-hjjLE&t=39s)
- On 4 November 2020, Axios reported that Trump discussed plans with confidants to declare victory despite the results.
	- `President Trump has told confidants he'll declare victory on Tuesday night if it looks like he's "ahead," according to three sources familiar with his private comments. That's even if the Electoral College outcome still hinges on large numbers of uncounted votes in key states like Pennsylvania.`
	  
	  `The latest: Speaking to reporters on Sunday evening, Trump denied that he would declare victory prematurely, before adding, "I think it's a terrible thing when ballots can be collected after an election. I think it's a terrible thing when states are allowed to tabulate ballots for a long period of time after the election is over."`
	  
	  `He continued: "I think it's terrible that we can't know the results of an election the night of the election. ... We're going to go in the night of, as soon as that election's over, we're going in with our lawyers."`
	  
	  `"We don't want to have Pennsylvania, where you have a political governor, a very partisan guy. ... We don't want to be in a position where he's allowed, every day, to watch ballots come in. See if we can only find 10,000 more ballots."`
	  
	  `Behind the scenes: Trump has privately talked through this scenario in some detail in the last few weeks, describing plans to walk up to a podium on election night and declare he has won.`
	  
	  `For this to happen, his allies expect he would need to either win or have commanding leads in Ohio, Florida, North Carolina, Texas, Iowa, Arizona and Georgia.`
	  
	  `Why it matters: Trump's team is preparing to falsely claim that mail-in ballots counted after Nov. 3 — a legitimate count expected to favor Democrats — are evidence of election fraud.` - [Trump plans to declare premature victory if he appears ahead on election night, Axios, 2020](https://www.axios.com/2020/11/01/trump-claim-election-victory-ballots)
# Peri-Election
- On 3 November 2020, Election Day starts.
- On 4 November 2020 @ 3:30AM EST, Trump claims victory as planned previously.
	- `This is a fraud on the American public. This is an embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this election. Frankly, we did win this election. We did win this election. So our goal now is to ensure the integrity for the good of this nation. This is a very big moment. This is a major fraud in our nation. We want the law to be used in a proper manner. So we’ll be going to the US Supreme Court. We want all voting to stop. We don’t want them to find any ballots at four o’clock in the morning and add them to the list. Okay? It’s a very sad moment. To me this is a very sad moment and we will win this. And as far as I’m concerned, we already have won it.` - [Donald Trump Election Night Speech 2020 Transcript, Rev, 2020](https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-2020-election-night-speech-transcript)
- On 4 & 5 November 2020, More than 200 Trump supporters protest at a Maricopa County, Arizona elections center and around downtown Phoenix, claiming some ballots have not been properly counted.
    - `Tensions are running high outside of the Maricopa County Elections office in Phoenix, Ariz., where more than a hundred protestors have demonstrated for the last three nights to argue about the electoral process after former Vice President Joe Biden became the front-runner in the traditionally red state.` - ["I Don't See Them Accepting The Results" Scenes from Election Protests in Maricopa County Arizona, Time, 2020](https://time.com/5908628/maricopa-county-arizona-protests/)
- On 5 November 2020, Trump Tweeted:
    - `STOP THE COUNT!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2020](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1324353932022480896)
- On 5 November 2020, Trump Tweeted:
    - `STOP THE FRAUD!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2020](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1324401527663058944)
- On 5 November 2020, Trump claimed that the election was being stolen from him.
    - `“If you count the legal votes, I easily win. If you count the illegal votes, they can try to steal the election from us. If you count the votes that came in late, we’re looking at them very strongly,” Trump told reporters.` - [Trump challenges electoral process as hopes for victory fade, The Hill, 2020](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/524731-trump-challenges-electoral-process-as-hopes-for-victory-fade/)
    - `“Media polling was election interference, in the truest sense of that word by powerful special interests. These, really, phony polls … were designed to keep our voters at home, create the illusion of momentum for Mr. Biden and diminish republicans ability to raise funds. They were what’s called suppression polls,” Trump said.`  - [Trump challenges electoral process as hopes for victory fade, The Hill, 2020](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/524731-trump-challenges-electoral-process-as-hopes-for-victory-fade/)
- On 7 November 2020, AP news called the 2020 Election in favour of Joe Biden.
    - `On Saturday, Biden captured the presidency when The Associated Press declared him the victor in his native Pennsylvania at 11:25 a.m. EST. That got him the state’s 20 electoral votes, which pushed him over the 270 electoral-vote threshold needed to prevail.` - [EXPLAINER: Why AP called the 2020 election for Joe Biden, AP News, 2020](https://apnews.com/article/why-did-ap-call-election-for-biden-fe79276cd9175fffc7cf4fb58045fcf9)
# Post-Election
- On 9 November 2020, The administrator of the General Services Administration refuses to sign a letter allowing Biden's transition team to formally begin work, reflecting Trump's position of not conceding yet.
    - `A Trump administration appointee is refusing to sign a letter allowing President-elect Joe Biden’s transition team to formally begin its work this week, in another sign the incumbent president has not acknowledged Biden’s victory and could disrupt the transfer of power.` - [Trump appointee at GSA declines to sign letter authorizing Biden transition, The Washington Post, 2020](https://archive.ph/HfGpV)
- On 12 November 2020, The Trump-Appointed Commis­sioner of the U.S. Elec­tion Assist­ance Commis­sion, Benjamin Hovland said that,
    - `You know, we've seen allegations like this before, and essentially, time and time again, when the rubber hits the road, there's no evidence — whether that's in court cases, whether that's in the presidential commission that was created in 2017 to find the alleged non-citizens fraud after the 2016 election that cost, in his mind, the president the popular vote, but found nothing and disbanded in embarrassment, or academic studies. We never see evidence of widespread voter fraud. And there's no indicators that 2020 will be different in that regard.` - [US's Chief Election Admin: Trump's Voting-Fraud Claims 'Shameful', Business Insider, 2020](https://www.businessinsider.com/nations-chief-election-administrator-calls-trumps-voting-fraud-claims-shameful-2020-11?r=US&IR=T)
- On 12 November 2020, The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency released the following statement:
    - `The November 3rd election was the most secure in American history. Right now, across the country, election officials are reviewing and double checking the entire election process prior to finalizing the result.`
      
      `When states have close elections, many will recount ballots. All of the states with close results in the 2020 presidential race have paper records of each vote, allowing the ability to go back and count each ballot if necessary. This is an added benefit for security and resilience. This process allows for the identification and correction of any mistakes or errors. There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised.`
      
      `Other security measures like pre-election testing, state certification of voting equipment, and the U.S. Election Assistance Commission’s (EAC) certification of voting equipment help to build additional confidence in the voting systems used in 2020.`
      
      `While we know there are many unfounded claims and opportunities for misinformation about the process of our elections, we can assure you we have the utmost confidence in the security and integrity of our elections, and you should too. When you have questions, turn to elections officials as trusted voices as they administer elections.` - [Joint Statement from Elections Infrastructure Government Coordinating Council & the Election Infrastructure Sector Coordinating Executive Committees, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, 2020](https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/news/joint-statement-elections-infrastructure-government-coordinating-council-election)
- On 11 December 2020, Attorney General William Barr said to the Associated Press that there is no evidence of widespread election fraud that Trump is claiming.
    - `Although Justice’s U.S. attorneys and FBI agents had been working to follow up specific complaints they’d received, Barr told Balsamo: “To date, we have not seen fraud on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election.” The Dec. 1 statement was a direct contradiction to Trump and his allies who have kept up baseless arguments about a rigged election, despite the electoral college tally and popular vote loss to Democrat Joe Biden.` - [In exclusive AP interview, AG Barr says no evidence of widespread election fraud, undermining Trump, The Associated Press, 2020](https://www.ap.org/news-highlights/best-of-the-week/2020/exclusive-interview-with-attorney-general-barr-nets-massive-scoop/)
- On 28 January 2021, The Federal Election Commission announced that Biden won the election on 3 November 2020, receiving 81,268,924 votes (51.31%) to Trump's 74,216,154 (46.86%) and 306 Electoral College votes to Trump's 232. [Official 2020 Presidential General Election Results, Federal Election Commission, 2021](https://www.fec.gov/resources/cms-content/documents/2020presgeresults.pdf)
# Specific Fraud Claims
## Allied Securities Operations Group Report
- 
	- ` ` - [Antrim Michigan Forensics Report, Revised Preliminary Summary, Allied Security Operations Group, 2020](https://www.justice.gov/d9/2023-05/03.31.23.%20--%20Interference%20in%202016%20or%202020%20Presidential%20Elections.pdf)
## State Farm Video
- Georgia, Ruby Freeman lies and the mysterious ballot boxes from under the black table
    - Origination
        - December 3rd, 2020 - [Georgia Senate Hearing](https://youtu.be/hRCXUNOwOjw?t=2281) Jackie Deason presentation by (notice the precise cuts at 1 hour, and 1 hour 20 minutes) (50:24 complete and total lie) on the "mysteriously appearing ballot boxes"
        - December 3rd, 2020 - [From the same hearing](https://youtu.be/r6C-80KpGvc?t=2908) with Deason calling out Ruby by name
            - December 3rd, 2020 - [Tweet](https://x.com/RudyGiuliani/status/1334585579510652928) by Rudy Giuliani of the same video
            - December 3rd, 2020 - [Tweet](https://x.com/RudyGiuliani/status/1334712590300311553) by Rudy Giuliani claiming Fulton Country Democrats stole the election
        - December 10th, 2020 - [Rudy Giuliani Presentation](https://youtu.be/9EfgETUKfsI?t=6932) to the Georgia House Governmental Affairs committee claiming Ruby and her daughter was engaged in criminal activity
    - Trump & Friends repeating the lie
        - December 3rd, 2020 - [Trump's YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nVP_60Hm4P8) channel posts
        - December 3rd, 2020 - [Sean Hannity](https://www.foxnews.com/media/sean-hannity-2020-election-georgia-nevada-suspicious-suitcases) repeating the lie, with Giuliani coming on to repeat it as well
        - December 5th, 2020 - [Trump Rally](https://youtu.be/hKBZemnS1j4?t=1116) about the suitcases
        - December 5th, 2020 - [Restoration of America](https://www.facebook.com/restorationamerica/posts/1002133710271567/) Facebook post
        - December 10th, 2020 - [Rudy Giuliani Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZfenoKfibJE&t=7819s) claiming Ruby Freeman was engaged in criminal activity.
        - December 10th, 2020 - [Trump's YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aCenojrUwVM) channel posting the same bad claims about Ruby/the tables
        - December 22nd, 2020 - [Trump YouTube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oh5j7s1H7ek) calling out Ruby Freeman
        - January 2nd, 2021 - [Raffensperger Call](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=242) About Ruby, and the mysterious table with the ballot boxes, [same call](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=1269) with her as a "known scammer" and [referring](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=1498) later to her reputation as being ruined because of their lies. [Again](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=2668) bringing up Ruby and her daughter later on in the same call.
        - January 3rd, 2021 - [Trump Tweeting](https://x.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345731043861659650) and lying about the phone call.
        - January 6th, 2021 - [Ellipse Speech](https://youtu.be/ht20eDYmLXU?t=2007) Amy Kremer saying they found Georgian voter fraud, [Trump saying](https://youtu.be/ht20eDYmLXU?t=12382) the ballots from under the boxes and scanned them multiple times.
    - Examples of people debunking the lie
        - Media
            - December 3rd, 2020 - [Lead Stories](https://leadstories.com/hoax-alert/2020/12/fact-check-video-from-ga-does-not-show-suitcases-filled-with-ballots-pulled-from-under-a-table-after-poll-workers-dismissed.html) Debunking
            - December 4th, 2020 - [WSB-TV](https://www.wsbtv.com/news/politics/georgia-election-officials-show-frame-by-frame-what-really-happened-fulton-surveillance-video/T5M3PYIBYFHFFOD3CIB2ULDVDE/) Definitive debunking the next day of the video
            - December 4th, 2020 - [Politifact](https://www.politifact.com/factchecks/2020/dec/04/facebook-posts/no-georgia-election-workers-didnt-kick-out-observe/) Debunking
            - December 4th, 2020 - [Factcheck.org](https://www.factcheck.org/2020/12/video-doesnt-show-suitcases-of-illegal-ballots-in-georgia/) Debunking
            - December 4th, 2020 - [GPB](https://www.gpb.org/news/2020/12/04/fact-checking-rudy-giulianis-grandiose-georgia-election-fraud-claim) Debunking
            - December 7th, 2020 - [AP](https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-georgia-elections-4eeea3b24f10de886bcdeab6c26b680a) Georgia Certifies election results after 3rd Recount
            - December 7th, 2020 - [NYTimes](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/07/technology/suitcases-ballots-georgia-election.html) Debunking
            - December 7th, 2020 - [USA Today](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/presidential/2020/12/07/secret-suitcase-magic-ballots-actually-bag-ballots-packed/3858322001/) Debunking
            - December 7th, 2020 - [Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/12/07/trump-touts-misleading-video-proof-georgia-voter-fraud/) Debunking
            - December 14th, 2020 - [USA Today](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/factcheck/2020/12/14/fact-check-georgia-suitcase-video-missing-context/3892640001/) Debunking
            - January 4th, 2021 - [AP](https://apnews.com/article/ap-fact-check-donald-trump-georgia-elections-electoral-college-407d934b6649a4e4059ec28c4cb70512) Debunking the phone call
        - Trustworthy Sources Debunking
            - December 4th, 2020 - [Video](https://youtu.be/jblC2Ooog2U?t=7437) of BJ Pak talking about a conversation with William Barr (2:02:26 mention of bad faith)
            - December 4th, 2020 - [Tweet](https://x.com/GabrielSterling/status/1334825233610633217) from Gabriel Sterling, COO of the Office of Georgia Secretary of State fact-checking the same
            - December 15th, 2020 - [Rosen's Deposition](https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Rosen%20Transcript.pdf) (pages 30-31) in a meeting saying that Trump had been told the Georgia stuff was BS.
            - December 27th and 31st, 2020 - [Richard Donoghue](https://youtu.be/jblC2Ooog2U?t=6298)
            - January 2nd, 2021 - [Raffensperger call](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=1374) where he mentions exactly how the State Farm video was cut up and debunked.
        - Media after
            - January 10th, 2021 - [60 Minutes Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pjKXvqSNIkk) Very clear and obvious video of where the ballots come from, he says at 4:50 that they were placed there earlier
            - January 30th, 2024 - [Frontline Documentary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y44fyh4ap7k&t=3906s) Same story, clearly debunked the next day, Gabriel Sterling says they lied at 1:06:30
    - Final status of the lie
        - January 7th, 2021 - [Georgia SAS](https://sos.ga.gov/news/trump-legal-team-folds) Trump dismisses his case against Georgia voluntarily
        - July 26, 2023 - [Original complaint](https://www.jurist.org/news/wp-content/uploads/sites/4/2021/12/Moss-v-Giuliani.pdf) was filed by Ruby Freeman and her daughter, [AP](https://apnews.com/article/giuliani-georgia-election-workers-lawsuit-false-statements-afc64a565ee778c6914a1a69dc756064) Giuliani [admits](https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.dcd.238720/gov.uscourts.dcd.238720.84.2.pdf) he lied about everything, [loses case](https://apnews.com/article/rudy-giuliani-georgia-election-workers-defamation-case-cde7186493b3a1bd9ab89bc65f0f5b06) for $148m,
        - November 1st, 2023 - Secretary of State of Georgia Gabriel Sterling [presents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1lGF9_1d3No&t=179s) a check for Powell for restitution after her guilty plea
## Dominion Voting Machine Hacking Votes
- Origination
    - November 9th, 2020 - [Gateway Pundit](https://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2020/11/breaking-huge-another-system-glitch-captured-live-cnn-election-night-20000-votes-swapped-trump-biden-video/) Article
    - November 10th, 2020 - [TheDonald](https://web.archive.org/web/20201113004656/https://thedonald.win/p/11Q8O2wesk/happening-calling-every-pede-to-/) Post
    - November 10th, 2020 - [YouTube video](https://web.archive.org/web/20201110233520/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yjv9ODcep9A) on Trump's Channel
- Trump & Friends repeating the lie
    - November 8th, 2020 - December 19th, 2020 - [Trump YouTube](https://filmot.com/search/%22dominion%22/1?channelID=UCAql2DyGU2un1Ei2nMYsqOA&sortField=uploaddate&sortOrder=asc&gridView=1&) mentions of Dominion
    - November 10th, 2020 - [OAN Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jAIu5HG8CRU) with Giuliani repeating the lie
    - November 11th, 2020 - [Trump tweet](https://x.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1326740844427304960?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw) Lying about Dominion
    - November 12th, 2020 - [OAN Video](https://x.com/RudyTakala/status/1326929877400948738) Lying about vote switching
    - November 12th, 2020 - [Trump Tweet](https://x.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1326926226888544256) quoting OANN
    - November 12th, 2020 - [Sean Hannity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YeEW1oeLaVE) on the Dominion Law
    - November 12th, 2020 - [Steve Bannon's War room](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n23BG2X37iI) show with Joe Hoft, the Gateway Pundit writer, repeating the lie
    - November 19th, 2020 - [Press Conference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RUlyQSjtE8c&t=2314s) by Sydney Powell just laying out blatant lies about Dominion voting machines.
    - November 25th, 2020 - [King et all v Whitmer](https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/18693929/king-v-whitmer/) Case involving Dominion/voter fraud allegations
    - November 26th, 2020 - [Trump White House Broadcast](https://youtu.be/JTbV0b4bjgI?t=1407) making false claims about ownership.
        - November 27th, 2020 - [Sean Hannity Rebroadcast](https://www.facebook.com/SeanHannity/posts/410578213685468/?rdid=HVwwA5Vb19CuwDf7)
    - December 2nd, 2020 - [Trump White House Broadcast](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/shared/gUMvbDx-X0lLb7ovCKGamd7wuMyiSSOiPClk2bnYmXCG2oOezO9bALNJOeHhrVo3YsCqXAxQzq9xw7guWrKWP_0q7WU?loadFrom=SharedClip&ts=646.68&te=661.68) repeating voter fraud lies about Dominion
    - December 3rd, 2020 - [Lindell and Gorka](https://www.facebook.com/AmericaFirstGorka/videos/438439460653478/) @ 6:42-6:44
    - December 15th, 2020 - [Trump Tweet](https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1338715842931023873.jpg)
    - December 16th, 2020 - [Trump Tweet](https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1339090279429775363.jpg)
    - December 19th, 2020 - [Trump Tweet](https://media-cdn.factba.se/realdonaldtrump-twitter/1340333619299147781.jpg)
    - January 2nd, 2021 - [Call](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=555) with Raffensperger, [later](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=933) again, [later](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=1098) again, [later](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=1794) again
    - January 6th, 2021 - [Ellipse Speech](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pa9sT4efsqY&t=5949s) and [again](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pa9sT4efsqY&t=6051s)
- Examples of people debunking the lie
    - Media
        - November 11th, 2020 - [NYTimes Article](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/11/technology/no-dominion-voting-machines-did-not-delete-trump-votes.html) Debunking
        - November 12th, 2020 - [Mediaite](https://www.mediaite.com/election-2020/trump-goes-all-caps-promoting-oans-voter-fraud-conspiracy-debunked-by-the-ny-times-and-others/) debunk report
        - November 13th, 2020 - [Factcheck](https://www.factcheck.org/2020/11/trump-tweets-conspiracy-theory-about-deleted-votes/) debunks about Dominion tweet
    - Trustworthy Sources Debunking
        - November 12th, November 21st, 2020 - [Deposition](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-J6-TRANSCRIPT-CTRL0000036621/pdf/GPO-J6-TRANSCRIPT-CTRL0000036621.pdf) of Kayleigh McEnany, waving Trump and Hannity off the Dominion track
        - November 12th, 2020 - [Joint Statement](https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/news/joint-statement-elections-infrastructure-government-coordinating-council-election) by Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), National Association of State Election Directors (NASED) the Election Infrastructure Sector Coordinating Council (SCC)
        - November 12th, 2020 - [Miller's Deposition](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-J6-TRANSCRIPT-CTRL0000041286/pdf/GPO-J6-TRANSCRIPT-CTRL0000041286.pdf) (page 116, 133)
        - November 23rd, 2020 - [Barr's Deposition](https://youtu.be/pr5QUInmGI8?t=3364) Telling him nothing was panning out
        - December 1st, 2020 - [Barr talking to the AP](https://youtu.be/pr5QUInmGI8?t=3765) Saying the Dominion stuff was BS
        - December 7th, 2020 - [AP](https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-georgia-elections-4eeea3b24f10de886bcdeab6c26b680a) Georgia Certifies election results after 3rd Recount
        - December 11th, 2020 - [Bee Nguyen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1U8CuyfcnLs) from the Georgia State Legislature showing how ridiculous the court filing was
        - January 2nd, 2021 - [Call](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=916) with Raffensperger saying they did a recount to debunk the Dominion machine talking point. [Later](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=1821), again.
        - Unknown? - [Rosen](https://youtu.be/Z4535-VW-bY?t=5902) saying there was no factual or legal basis to seize machines, [Trump trying to pressure](https://youtu.be/Z4535-VW-bY?t=5981) the DHS to seize machines after
- Final status of the lie
    - Dominion [complaint](https://clarelocke.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/OAN-Complaint.pdf) against OAN
    - Dominion [complaint](https://hamiltonps.app.box.com/s/7kxs73dqqsbr9ffb5faanzjkqgdljg90) against Rudy Giuliani
        - Lawsuit stayed after his bankruptcy filing (due to his other lawsuit loss)
    - Dominion [complaint](https://www.dominionvoting.com/download/powell-complaint/?wpdmdl=68274&masterkey=60245d1992c01) against Sydney Powell
        - [Powell response to Dominion complaint](https://www.justsecurity.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/january-6-clearinghouse-3-22-21-sidney-powell-defending-the-republic-motion-to-dismiss-dominion.pdf)
            - PDF page 41, THESE STATEMENTS WERE ALWAYS JUST OPINIONS
            - Reasonable people understand that the “language of the political arena, like the language used in labor disputes … is often vituperative, abusive and inexact.” Watts v. United States, 394 U.S. 705, 708 (1969). It is likewise a “well recognized principle that political statements are inherently prone to exaggeration and hyperbole.” Planned Parenthood of Columbia/Willamette, Inc. v. Am. Coal. of Life Activists, 244 F.3d 1007, 1009 (9th Cir. 2001). Given the highly charged and political context of the statements, it is clear that Powell was describing the facts on which she based the lawsuits she filed in support of President Trump. Indeed, Plaintiffs themselves characterize the statements at issue as “wild accusations” and “outlandish claims.” Id. at ¶¶ 2, 60, 97, 111. They are repeatedly labelled “inherently improbable” and even “impossible.” Id. at ¶¶ 110, 111, 114, 116 and 185. Such characterizations of the allegedly defamatory statements further support Defendants’ position that reasonable people would not accept such statements as fact but view them only as claims that await testing by the courts through the adversary process.
            - Powell admits in her defense that the statements were wild and that no one should believe them, despite Trump saying people went to J6 because of election fraud concerns.
    - Dominion [complaint](https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/23731963-dominion_3-21-23_hearing_slides-used-at-hearing_redacted) against Fox News, [settled](https://apnews.com/article/fox-news-dominion-lawsuit-trial-trump-2020-0ac71f75acfacc52ea80b3e747fb0afe) for $787m
    - Dominion [complaint](https://hamiltonps.app.box.com/s/hxqooccq8e3j28rrk5mrgnny898obtov/file/844757968736) against NewsMax
        - Trial date set for Quarter 2, 2025
    - Dominion [complaint](https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/20489801/2-22-21-dominion-v-my-pillow-michael-lindell-complaint.pdf) against Mike Lindell
    - Dominion [complaint](https://hamiltonps.app.box.com/s/hxqooccq8e3j28rrk5mrgnny898obtov/file/844757152774) against Patrick Byrne
## Pennyslyvania Unregistered Voters
- Origination
        - November 27th, 2020 - [Tweet](https://x.com/senmastriano/status/1332398733401591808?s=21) by Senator Doug Mastriano
        - December 28th, 2020 - [Post by "PA Lawmakers"](https://www.repdiamond.com/News/18754/Latest-News/PA-Lawmakers-Numbers-Don%E2%80%99t-Add-Up,-Certification-of-Presidential-Results-Premature-and-In-Error)
    - Trump & Friends repeating the lie
        - December 28th, 2020 - [Trump Tweet](https://media.snopes.com/2020/12/trumptweet1.png)
        - December 29th, 2020 - [Trump Tweet](https://x.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1343919651336712199)
        - January 2, 2021 - [Call](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?t=648) with Raffensperger
        - January 6th, 2021 - Amy Kremer [Ellipse Speech](https://youtu.be/ht20eDYmLXU?t=1992)
        - January 6th, 2021 - [Trump Ellipse Speech](https://youtu.be/ht20eDYmLXU?t=11403)
    - Examples of people debunking the lie
        - Media
            - December 1st, 2020 - [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/world/fact-check-post-mixes-pennsylvania-primary-and-general-election-data-to-suggest-idUSKBN28B5NM/)
            - December 27th, 2020 - [Donoghue call](https://youtu.be/Z4535-VW-bY?t=4002)
            - December 29th, 2020 - [Snopes](https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/pennsylvania-205000-votes/)
            - December 29th, 2020 - [AP](https://apnews.com/article/fact-checking-9887147615)
            - Undetermined - [State of Pennsylvania](https://www.pa.gov/en/agencies/vote/elections/fact-checking-pa-related-election-claims.html#accordion-979bb525f3-item-3462031f68)
            - January 14th, 2021 - [CNN Fact Check](https://www.cnn.com/factsfirst/politics/factcheck_7270e357-5d21-465c-bd69-9c8913cff4c0)
        - Trustworthy Sources Debunking
            - Before December 14th, 2020 - [Bill Barr](https://youtu.be/jblC2Ooog2U?t=7861)
            - December 27th, 2020 - [Richard Donoghue](https://youtu.be/Z4535-VW-bY?t=3987)
            - January 3rd, 2021 - [Richard Donoghue](https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Donoghue%20Transcript.pdf) page 136
    - Final status of the lie
        - No lawsuit or anything was ever filed. The Secretary of Pennsylvania published a full statement explaining the difference in numbers.
# Intelligence Community Report
- On 15 March 2021, The Office of the Director of National Intelligence declassified and released a report on Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections
    - `Throughout the election cycle, Russia's online influence actors sought to affect US public perceptions of the candidates, as well as advance Moscow's longstanding goals of undermining confidence in US election processes and increasing sociopolitical divisions among the American people. During the presidential primaries and dating back to 2019, these actors backed candidates from both major US political parties that Moscow viewed as outsiders, while later claiming that election fraud helped what they called "establishment" candidates. Throughout the election, Russia's online influence actors sought to amplify mistrust in the electoral process by denigrating mail-in ballots, highlighting alleged irregularities, and accusing the Democratic Party of voter fraud.`
      
      `The Kremlin-linked influence organization Project Lakhta and its Lakhta Internet Research (LIR) troll farm--commonly referred to by its former moniker Internet Research Agency (IRA)-amplified controversial domestic issues. LIR used social media personas, news websites, and US persons to deliver tailored content to subsets of the US population. LIR established short-lived troll farms that used unwitting third-country nationals in Ghana, Mexico, and Nigeria to propagate these US-focused narratives, probably in response to efforts by US companies and law enforcement to shut down UR-associated personas.
      
      `Russian state media, trolls, and online proxies, including those directed by Russian intelligence, published disparaging content about President Biden, his family, and the Democratic Party, and heavily amplified related content circulating in US media, including stories centered on his son. These influence actors frequently sought out US contributors to increase their reach into US audiences. In addition to election-related content, these online influence actors also promoted conspiratorial narratives about the COVID-19 pandemic, made allegations of social media censorship, and highlighted US divisions surrounding protests about racial justice.
      
      `Russian online influence actors generally promoted former President Trump and his commentary, including repeating his political messaging on the election results; the presidential campaign; debates; the impeachment inquiry; and, as the election neared, US domestic crises. Influence actors sometimes sought to discourage US left-leaning audiences from voting by suggesting that neither candidate was a preferable option. At the same time, Russian actors criticized former President Trump or his administration when they pursued foreign policies-such as the targeted killing of Iranian General Qasem Soleimani in January 2020--at odds with Russia's preferences.
      
      `LIR, which probably receives tasking and strategic direction from the Kremlin, pushed stories supporting former President Trump and denigrating President Biden after he became the presumptive nominee in April.` - [Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, 2021](https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/20515484/icadeclass16mar21.pdf)
    - `We assess that Russian leaders viewed President Biden's potential election as disadvantageous to Russian interests and that this drove their efforts to undermine his candidacy. We have high confidence in this assessment.`
      
      `Russian officials and state media frequently attacked President Biden for his leading role in the Obama administration's Ukraine policy and his support for the anti-Putin opposition in Russia, suggesting the Kremlin views him as part of a reflexively anti-Russia US foreign policy establishment. Putin probably also considers President Biden more apt to echo the idea of American "exceptionalism," which he and other Kremlin leaders have often publicly criticized as problematic and dangerous.`
      
      `Moscow's range of influence actors uniformly worked to denigrate President Biden after his entrance into the race. Throughout the primaries and general election campaign, Russian influence agents repeatedly spread unsubstantiated or misleading claims about President Biden and his family's alleged wrongdoing related to Ukraine. By contrast, during the Democratic primaries Russian online influence actors promoted candidates that Moscow viewed as outside what it perceives to be an anti-Russia political establishment.`
      
      `Even after the election, Russian online influence actors continued to promote narratives questioning the election results and disparaging President Biden and the Democratic Party. These efforts parallel plans Moscow had in place in 2016 to discredit a potential incoming Clinton administration, but which it scrapped after former President Trump's victory.` - [Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, 2021](https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/20515484/icadeclass16mar21.pdf)
# Post-Election Lawsuits
[J6 Research Request](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KBp4hMv3adDBpSy2hSLL6GHmJMqCBD0jPzSWkf7MaTc/edit?gid=0#gid=0)
- There was a total of 64 pre and post-election lawsuits in regards to Trump’s claims of voter integrity & fraud.
    - `Of the 64 cases brought by Trump and his supporters, twenty were dismissed before a hearing on the merits, fourteen were voluntarily dismissed by Trump and his supporters before a hearing on the merits, and 30 cases included a hearing on the merits. Only in one Pennsylvania case involving far too few votes to overturn the results did Trump and his supporters prevail.` - [Lost, Not Stolen: The Conservative Case that Trump Lost and Biden Won the 2020 Presidential Election, 2022](https://lostnotstolen.org//wp-content/uploads/2022/07/Lost-Not-Stolen-The-Conservative-Case-that-Trump-Lost-and-Biden-Won-the-2020-Presidential-Election-July-2022.pdf)
## SCOTUS
### Mike Kelly, et al. v. Pennsylvania, et al.
- On 3 December 2020, 28 Republican politicians, led by Rep. Mike Kelly, asked the US Supreme Court to block the certification of Pennsylvania's election results alleging that “no excuse” absentee voting law unlawfully expanded the scope of absentee voting. Plaintiffs sought a temporary restraining order against certification while the courts ruled on the issue. 
	- [Mike Kelly, et al. v. Pennsylvania, et al. (Docket), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/search.aspx?filename=/docket/docketfiles/html/public/20-810.html)
- On 8 December 2020, The SCOTUS turned down seeing the case.
    - `First, Petitioners’ unjustifiable delay in filing suit not only supports the application of laches, but also weighs against issuing an injunction. Petitioners waited over a year after Act 77 passed—and then weeks after Election Day—to first bring their claims. Petitioners should not receive extraordinary relief after unduly delaying in a manner that created the very exigent circumstances that supposedly animate their rush to this Court.` - [Mike Kelly, et al. v. Pennsylvania, et al. (Opposition of Respondents to Emergency Application for Writ of Injunction Pending the Filing And Disposition of a Petition for a Writ of Certiorari), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/20/20A98/162968/20201208090425848_20A98%20Response%20in%20Opposition%20efile.pdf)
    - `Second, the public interest in avoiding mass disenfranchisement of an entire state militates overwhelmingly against Petitioners’ request for relief. As Judge Sutton has explained, “[c]all it what you will—laches, the Purcell principle, or common sense—the idea is that courts will not disrupt imminent elections absent a powerful reason for doing so.”` - [Mike Kelly, et al. v. Pennsylvania, et al. (Opposition of Respondents to Emergency Application for Writ of Injunction Pending the Filing And Disposition of a Petition for a Writ of Certiorari), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/20/20A98/162968/20201208090425848_20A98%20Response%20in%20Opposition%20efile.pdf)
    - `Finally, granting an injunction would sow chaos and confusion across the Nation while inflaming baseless concerns about electoral impropriety and ensnaring the Judiciary in partisan strife. This case reaches the Court against the backdrop of unfounded claims—which have been repeatedly rejected by state and federal courts— that wrongly impugn the integrity of the democratic process and aim to cast doubt on the legitimacy of its outcome. Given that context, the Court should not plunge itself into a firestorm by issuing the first ever judicial order decertifying the results of a presidential election. Instead, it should stay true to “the trust of a Nation that here, We the People rule.”` - [Mike Kelly, et al. v. Pennsylvania, et al. (Opposition of Respondents to Emergency Application for Writ of Injunction Pending the Filing And Disposition of a Petition for a Writ of Certiorari), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/20/20A98/162968/20201208090425848_20A98%20Response%20in%20Opposition%20efile.pdf)
    - `Petitioner’s application for a writ of injunction should be denied.` - [Mike Kelly, et al. v. Pennsylvania, et al. (Opposition of Respondents to Emergency Application for Writ of Injunction Pending the Filing And Disposition of a Petition for a Writ of Certiorari), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/20/20A98/162968/20201208090425848_20A98%20Response%20in%20Opposition%20efile.pdf)
### Texas v. Pennsylvania, et al.
- On 7 December 2020, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton sued Pennsylvania, Georgia, Michigan, and Wisconsin in the US Supreme Court seeking to overturn their election results. 
	- [Texas v. Pennsylvania, et al. (Docket), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/search.aspx?filename=/docket/docketfiles/html/public/22o155.html)
- On 11 December 2020, The SCOTUS turned down seeing the case.
    - `The State of Texas’s motion for leave to file a bill of complaint is denied for lack of standing under Article III of the Constitution. Texas has not demonstrated a judicially cognizable interest in the manner in which another State conducts its elections. All other pending motions are dismissed as moot.`
      
      `Statement of Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas joins: In my view, we do not have discretion to deny the filing of a bill of complaint in a case that falls within our original jurisdiction. See Arizona v. California, 589 U. S. ___ (Feb. 24, 2020) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  I would therefore grant the motion to file the bill of complaint but would not grant other relief, and I express no view on any other issue.` - [Texas v. Pennsylvania, et al. (Order of the Court), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/orders/courtorders/121120zr_p860.pdf)
### Donald J. Trump, v. Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., et al.
- On 13 October 2020, The Trump campaign asked the US Supreme Court to overturn three decisions from the Pennsylvania Supreme Court over various technical rules regarding absentee and mail-in ballots. 
	- [Donald J. Trump, v. Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., et al. (Docket), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/search.aspx?filename=/docket/docketfiles/html/public/20a63.html)
- On 22 February 2021, The court rejected the case declaring it moot.
    - `First, Applicant contends that he will be irreparably harmed even if the relevant documents are disclosed only to the “grand jury and prosecutors.” Appl. 33. But the primary authority Applicant cites for that proposition, Church of Scientology of Cal. v. United States, 506 U.S. 9 (1992), suggests the opposite. There, the Court held that a party’s appeal of an order requiring it to produce records to the government does not become moot even after the party has produced those records.` - [Donald J. Trump, v. Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., et al. (Opposition to Emergency Application for Stay), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/20/20A63/158004/20201016160250058_20A63%20Stay%20Opposition.pdf)
    - `Second, Applicant claims irreparable harm from the possibility that his records may be “disclosed publicly” outside the grand jury. Appl. 33. But as noted, Applicant must show a “likelihood”—not a mere hypothetical possibility—“that irreparable harm will result from the denial of” relief. ... There is no likelihood that his records will become public, given the “presumption of confidentiality [that] attaches to the record of Grand Jury proceedings.”` - [Donald J. Trump, v. Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., et al. (Opposition to Emergency Application for Stay), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/20/20A63/158004/20201016160250058_20A63%20Stay%20Opposition.pdf)
    - `Finally, Applicant contends that the purported harm is “particularly pressing” because he “challenges a subpoena to a third party.” Appl. 34. But the subpoena’s issuance to a third party (Mazars) is immaterial because everyone agrees that it “is functionally a subpoena issued to the President.” ... That is why, throughout these proceedings, Mazars has taken “no position on the legal issues raised” and indicated that it would follow any court order.` - [Donald J. Trump, v. Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., et al. (Opposition to Emergency Application for Stay), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/20/20A63/158004/20201016160250058_20A63%20Stay%20Opposition.pdf)
    - `The application for a stay presented to Justice Breyer and referred to the Court is denied.` - [Donald J. Trump, v. Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., et al. (Order of the Court), Supreme Court of the United States, 2020](https://www.supremecourt.gov/orders/courtorders/022221zor_2cp3.pdf)
## Arizona
### Aguilera v. Fontes
- On 4 November 2020, a voter, Laurie Aguilera, filed a lawsuit accusing Maricopa County that Votes cast using Sharpies were unlawfully excluded from election results.
    - `Plaintiff Laurie Aguilera voted in person in Maricopa County on election day, November 3, 2020. She was provided with a sharpie by the poll workers with which to mark her ballot. Plaintiff completed her ballot with the provided sharpie. While completing it she noticed that the ink was bleeding through. Plaintiff has been voting in person for several election cycles. However, upon information and belief, she has never before been given a sharpie as a marking device by a poll worker. Plaintiff fed her ballot into the ballot box. The ballot box failed to properly register her vote causing a poll-worker to cancel her ballot in the presence of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff requested a new ballot but, upon information and belief, upon consultation with the Maricopa County Reorder's Office, the poll workers refused to provide her with one. Upon information and belief, many other voters have experienced similar issues. Upon information and belief not all Arizona counties and polling places provided in-person voters with sharpies for marking devices.` - [Aguilera v. Fontes (Verified Complaint for a Special Action (Expedited Election Matter)), Superior Court of the State of Arizona for the County of Maricopa, 2020](https://www.clerkofcourt.maricopa.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/1446/637401560936870000)
- On 7 November 2020, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed after filing suit.
    - `Plaintiffs, pursuant to Ariz. R. Civ P. 41(a)(1)(A)(i), voluntarily dismiss without prejudice the claims in the above-entitled action against Defendants.` - [Aguilera v. Fontes (Notice of Dismissal), Superior Court of the State of Arizona for the County of Maricopa, 2020](https://www.clerkofcourt.maricopa.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/1536/637405062626170000)
- On 12 November 2020, a Second suit was brought by Aguilera, alleging her vote was not counted and asking for opportunity to cast a new ballot.
    - `Plaintiff Laurie Aguilera voted in person in Maricopa County on election day, November 3, 2020 alongside her husband Damian Aguilera. Neither Plaintiff Aguilera nor her husband are on the early voting list or received ballots by mail. Ex. B. [Aguilera family ballot status informationl. When election-day voters like Plaintiff Aguilera showed up to the polls, they were checked in by poll-workers on tablet-style devices and their names were then logged into the county's electronic pollbook. Plaintiff Aguilera and her husband were checked-in to the polls by a poll-worker. Plaintiff Aguilera completed her ballot according to the instructions provided by Defendants. Plaintiff Aguilera and her husband attempted to feed their ballots into the tabulator as instructed. Upon information and belief, when a ballot is successfully read and insetted into a tabulator, the tabulator displays a confirmation that the ballot has been accepted on a small digital readout.` - [Aguilera v. Fontes et al. (Verified Complaint for a Special Action (Expedited Election Matter)), Superior Court of the State of Arizona for the County of Maricopa, 2020](https://www.clerkofcourt.maricopa.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/1654/637408527538670000)
- On 29 November 2020, the State judge dismissed the case with prejudice after an evidentiary hearing.
    - `Plaintiff Aguilera asserts that she was unable to successfully cast her ballot in person at the polls on 11/3/2020, Election Day. Aguilera testified that on Election Day, she and her husband Damian Aguilera went together to vote in person at the Sheraton Hotel at 26th Avenue and Dunlap in Phoenix. Aguilera's husband testified that he voted without incident just ahead of his wife. Aguilera testified that when she inserted her completed ballot into the tabulator machine, the tabulator screen did not ligtrt up or make any noise. Poll workers who came to assist Aguilera thought the tabulator looked as though it was ready to receive another ballot and told Aguilera she needed to vote again. When Aguilera began the process of doing so by scanning in her identification at the check-in kiosk, the kiosk indicated that she had already cast her ballot and gave her the option to cancel the ballot.` - [Aguilera v. Fontes et al. (Case Dismissed), Superior Court of the State of Arizona for the County of Maricopa, 2020](https://the2020election.org/wp-content/uploads/ElectionLawsuits/Arizona/AZ-AguileraOrder11_29.pdf)
    - `IT IS ORDERED therefore dismissing with prejudice this action for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted, or alternatively, denying the relief sought by Plaintiffs given their failure to produce evidence demonstrating entitlement to same.` - [Aguilera v. Fontes et al. (Case Dismissed), Superior Court of the State of Arizona for the County of Maricopa, 2020](https://the2020election.org/wp-content/uploads/ElectionLawsuits/Arizona/AZ-AguileraOrder11_29.pdf)
### Arizona Republican Party v. Fontes
- On 7 November 2020, The Trump Campaign, Republican National Committee, and Arizona Republican Party alleged that Maricopa County elections officials violated state and federal law when overriding electronic tabulator errors for ballots rejected by an electronic tabulation device. 
	- `There exists a real, justiciable and immediate controversy for the Court to resolve: whether the sampling for the statutorily-required hand count must be at least 2% of vote centers (polling places), as the Secretary of State's manual contends; or 2% of precincts, in accordance with the plain language of A.R.S. 16-602(B)(1), as Plaintiff contends.` - [Arizona Republican Party v. Fontes (Verified Complaint), Superior Court of the State of Arizona for the County of Maricopa, 2020](https://www.clerkofcourt.maricopa.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/1646/637407938977600000)
- There is no evidence that using Sharpies leads to issues with scanning ballots and officials have said using Sharpies is preferred. Arizona's Secretary of State Katie Hobbs tweeted,
    - `IMPORTANT: If you voted a regular ballot in-person, your ballot will be counted, no matter what kind of pen you used (even a Sharpie)!` - [@secretaryhobbs Tweet, 2020](https://twitter.com/SecretaryHobbs/status/1324074443740647425)
- On 18 November 2020, the Judge 
	- ` ` - [Arizona Republican Party v. Fontes (Denial of Preliminary Injunction), Superior Court of the State of Arizona for the County of Maricopa, 2020](https://the2020election.org/wp-content/uploads/ElectionLawsuits/Arizona/added-AZ02order11_18-014553.pdf)
- On 21 November 2020, the Judge 
	- ` ` - [Arizona Republican Party v. Fontes (Remainder Dismissal), Superior Court of the State of Arizona for the County of Maricopa, 2020](https://the2020election.org/wp-content/uploads/ElectionLawsuits/Arizona/AZ-Republican-Party-014553-disposition.pdf)
### Kelli Ward v. Constance Jackson et al., and Katie Hobbs.
- On 30 November 2020, an Arizona voter and state Republican Party Chair, Kelli Ward, filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of Arizona, Maricopa County. Ward challenged the signature verification process, claiming election workers were unfit to verify signatures. Ward also challenged the ballot duplication process, whereby bipartisan county workers transferred votes to new ballots when ballot tabulators could not read them, claiming that observers were not allowed to view the entire process. [link](https://www.azcourts.gov/newsandinfo/High-Profile-Case-Update/CV-20-0343)
- On 4 December 2020, Arizona's Superior Court of Maricopa County
    - `A.R.S. § 16-672(A)(5) permits an election contest on the ground that, “by reason of erroneous count of votes” the candidate certified as the winner “did not in fact receive the highest number of votes.” Plaintiff has not proven that the Biden/Harris ticket did not receive the highest number of votes.` - [link](https://web.archive.org/web/20201230073802/https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/Order-2.pdf)
- On 8 December 2020, Arizona's Supreme Court unanimously rejected the appeal of the Superior Court case saying the facts Ward presented were incorrect and that she "fails to present any evidence of misconduct."
    - `Intervenor Maricopa County argues that the trial court could not entertain this challenge under A.R.S. § 16-672(A) which authorizes a contest of the “election of any person declared elected to state office.” Intervenors/Defendants/Amicus contend that the Court must decide this matter within the “safe harbor” deadline of 3 U.S.C. § 5.  
    -   
    - The Court concludes, unanimously, that the trial judge did not abuse his discretion in denying the request to continue the hearing and permit additional inspection of the ballots. The November 9, 2020 hand count audit revealed no discrepancies in the tabulation of votes and the statistically negligible error presented in this case falls far short of warranting relief under A.R.S. § 16-672. Because the challenge fails to present any evidence of “misconduct,” “illegal votes” or that the Biden Electors “did not in fact receive the highest number of votes for office,” let alone establish any degree of fraud or a sufficient error rate that would undermine the certainty of the election results, the Court need not decide if the challenge was in fact authorized under A.R.S. § 16-672 or if the federal “safe harbor” deadline applies to this contest. Therefore,  
    -   
    - IT IS ORDERED affirming the trial court decision and confirming the election of the Biden Electors under A.R.S. § 16-676(B).`  
    - [link](https://web.archive.org/web/20210522064031/https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/AscDecisionOrder-3939735-0.pdf)
### Bowyer v. Ducey.
- On 2 December 2020, Sidney Powell, who litigated on behalf of some Arizona voters and one candidate for Republican Arizona presidential elector, filed a lawsuit in federal court against the governor, secretary of state, and other Arizona election officials. They asked the court to decertify Arizona's election results, or order that Arizona certify Trump electors. [link](https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/18707812/bowyer-v-ducey/)
- On 9 December 2020, The judge ruled that the plaintiffs lacked legal standing.
    
    - `Plaintiffs bring their Complaint seeking injunctive relief from this Court, specifically, to “set aside the results of the 2020 General Election,” because they claim the election process and results were “so riddled with fraud, illegality and statistical impossibility . . . that Arizona voters, courts and legislators cannot rely on or certify” its results. (Doc. 1 at 2). By any measure, the relief Plaintiffs seek is extraordinary. If granted, millions of Arizonans who exercised their individual right to vote in the 2020 General Election would be utterly disenfranchised. Such a request should then be accompanied by clear and conclusive facts to support the alleged “egregious range of conduct in Maricopa County and other Arizona counties . . . at the direction of Arizona state election officials.” (Id.) Yet the Complaint’s allegations are sorely wanting of relevant or reliable evidence, and Plaintiffs’ invocation of this Court’s limited jurisdiction is severely strained. Therefore, for the reasons stated herein, the Complaint shall be dismissed.` - [link](https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.azd.1255923/gov.uscourts.azd.1255923.84.0_2.pdf)
### Stevenson v. Ducey,
- On 4 December 2020, A group of voters alleged that Arizona election officials did not enforce Arizona residency requirements, permitted “double voting,” and used the Center for Tech and Civic Life to create illegal disparities in ballot and drop-box voting in demographically different areas of Arizona. Plaintiffs sought an injunction to prevent the certification of the election results and asked the governor to certify legislatively selected Presidential Electors.
    
    - `The Plaintiffs, by and through their attorneys of record, file this voter election contest to vacate the certification of the November 3, 2020 Presidential election result in Arizona pursuant to Arizona Statutes § 16-672 et. seq. The election officials’ absentee ballot error rate is legally unacceptable in light of the razor-thin vote margin.` - [link](https://www.clerkofcourt.maricopa.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/1914/637426926829400000)
    
- On 7 November 2020, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed after filing suit.
    
    - `Petitioners, pursuant to Rule 41 (a)(1)(A)(i) of the Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure, hereby give notice of their voluntary dismissal of the above-captioned action, without prejudice, and with no costs assigned to either party.  
    -   
    - RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED as of this 7th day of December, 2020.`  
    - [link](https://www.clerkofcourt.maricopa.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/1956/637429572632870000)
### Burk v. Ducey,
- On 7 November 2020, A voter alleged widespread voter fraud, including: failing to count valid ballots and fraudulently switching Trump votes to Biden ones; counting unlawful absentee and mail-in ballots; committing fraud with Dominion machines; and violating observation rights. The voter asked the court to decertify Arizona’s presidential election results or exclude unlawful absentee and mail-in ballots from the count.
    - `Plaintiff brings forth this election complaint to bring forth election fraud as well as violations of Arizona election laws, Electors Clauses, and the Equal Protection and Due Process Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, of the U.S. Constitution. These violations occurred during the 2020 General Election throughout the State of Arizona, as set forth in the affidavits of eyewitnesses and the voter data cited, the statistical anomalies and mathematical impossibilities detailed in the affidavits of expert witnesses.  
    -   
    - Plaintiff alleges a widespread scheme and artifice to defraud the election for the purpose of illegally and fraudulently manipulating the vote count to manufacture an election of Joe Biden as President of the United States,and also of various down ballot democrat candidates in the 2020 election cycle. This fraud was executed by the systemic adaptation of old-fashioned "ballot-stuffing," which included the transport of fraudulent ballots taken to the county tabulation center as well as by using software to manipulate the vote count in Maricopa County and using fraudulent and altered ballots in outlying counties to create an appearance ofa similar proportional result in the outlying counties such as Pinal.  
    -   
    - The widespread election fraud has now been amplified and rendered virtually invisible by computer software reated and run by domestic and foreign actors for this very purpose. This Complaint details an especially egregious nge of conduct in Maricopa County and other Arizona counties using employing Dominion Systems, though this onduct occurred throughout the State at the direction of Arizona state election officials.`  
    - [link](https://web.archive.org/web/20201210162730/https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/12/Burk-v-Ducey-complaint.pdf)
- On 15 November 2020, The State judge dismissed case after argument for lack of standing as voter did not show they were registered, also finding the complaint was untimely and barred by laches.
    - `The Court has reviewed and considered the Motions to Dismiss filed by the Governor. the Secretary of State and the Maricopa County Attorneys Office and the Response filed by Plaintiff. In addition, the Court has also considered the oral arguments of counsel. the Notice of Filing, filed on December 14, 2020 by the Secretary of State and Plaintiffs Response to it.  
    -   
    - Good cause exists to grant the Motions to Dismiss on multiple separate and independent grounds raised by the moving parties, including the following:  
    -   
    - PLAINTIFF IS NOT AUTHORIZEQ. BRING It-its ELECTION CONTEST BECAUSE SHE WAS NOT REGISTERED TO VOTE IN THE 2020 GENERAL ELECTION WHEN SHE FILED HER COMPLAINT`  
    - [link](https://web.archive.org/web/20201230074056/https://healthyelections-case-tracker.stanford.edu/file?id=179)
    
- On 3 March 2021, the case was filed with SCOTUS but was denied.
    - `This action is brought to secure equitable relief resulting from Defendants' unlawful deprivation of Plaintiffs rights, privileges, and immunities guaranteed by the Equal Protection and Due Process Clause of the U.S. Const. Amend. XIV, the U.S. Const. Amend. I, and the laws of Arizona and the United States. Petitioner contends the juxtaposition of unqualified voters having their vote counted in the 2020 election, while a real person (Petitioner) was illegally denied her voice is the heart of her constitutional and election challenge claims.` - [link](https://crimeofthecentury2020.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Petition030321.pdf)
## California
### Election Integrity Project California, Inc., et al. v. Alex Padilla, California Secretary of State, et al.
## Georgia
[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-election_lawsuits_related_to_the_2020_United_States_presidential_election_from_Georgia\#In_re:_Enforcement_of_Election_Laws_and_Securing_Ballots_Cast_or_Received_after_7:00pm_on_November_3,_2020)
In re: Enforcement of Election Laws and Securing Ballots Cast or Received after 7:00pm on November 3, 2020. [link](https://healthyelections-case-tracker.stanford.edu/detail?id=345)
- On 4 November 2020, the Trump campaign and the Georgia Republican Party filed suit in the Chatham County Superior Court, alleging that the Chatham County Board of Elections had failed "to safely store absentee ballots" and might be illegally accepting "absentee ballots arriving after 7:00 p.m. on Election Day.”
- On 5 November 2020, The judge denied the request to toss out the 53 ballots that a GOP poll watcher said arrived after polls closed at 7 p.m. on November 3.
    - `Before the Court is a Petition to Command Enforcement of Election Laws which was filed by the Georgia Republican Party and Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. The matter was heard via Webex on November 5, 2020. Having read and considered said petition, all argument and evidence of record, including the evidence presented at the hearing, and the applicable law, the Court finds that there is no evidence that the ballots referenced in the petition were received after 7:00 p.m. on election day, thereby making those ballots invalid. Additionally, there is no evidence that the Chatham County Board of Elections or the Chatham County Board of Registrars has failed to comply with the law.`
      
      `WHEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED that the above petition is DISMISSED.` - [link](https://www.wsav.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/75/2020/11/Order-On-Petition-To-Command-Enforcement-Of-Election-Laws-2.pdf)
- Republican elector Lin Wood, [whose attorney also represents the Trump campaign](https://lawandcrime.com/2020-election/trump-appointed-judge-rejects-lin-woods-creative-election-lawsuit-in-georgia/), sued to stop vote certification because. He argued that because the Georgia Secretary of State agreed to allow signature matching on ballots — a measure designed to prevent voter fraud — eight months before the election, his rights as an individual voter had been infringed upon. A state judge [dismissed the case](https://www.fox5atlanta.com/news/judge-dismisses-trump-campaign-lawsuit-seeking-to-halt-georgia-election-certification), [saying the arguments have "no basis in fact and law."](https://lawandcrime.com/2020-election/trump-appointed-judge-rejects-lin-woods-creative-election-lawsuit-in-georgia/)
- Wood filed another lawsuit in federal court and [lost that one as well](https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/7334748/12-5-20-11th-Circuit-Opinion-Wood-v-Raffensperger.pdf), [losing again upon appeal](https://twitter.com/marceelias/status/1343603310293606401).
- Sidney Powell, [who was kicked off of Trump's legal team](https://www.businessinsider.com/trump-lost-patience-with-conspiracy-theorist-attorney-powell-nyt-2020-11) after spreading numerous conspiracy theories about election fraud, filed a federal lawsuit in Georgia alleging widespread election fraud. A federal judge [quickly dismissed the case](https://www.businessinsider.com/sidney-powell-loses-2-kraken-lawsuits-in-one-day-in-georgia-michigan-2020-12), calling it "extraordinary" that the lawsuit sought to disqualify the votes of millions of voters.
- Nearly two months after he lost the election, [Trump sued Georgia Governor Brian Kemp and Secretary of State Brian Raffensperger](https://lawandcrime.com/2020-election/trumps-new-lawsuit-seeking-to-decertify-georgia-election-provides-insight-into-absurd-claims-made-in-his-call-with-secretary-of-state/) seeking to "de-certify" the election, arguing that it wasn't carried out in accordance with Georgia law. Trump withdrew the case on January 7, according to court records reviewed by Insider.
## Michigan
- In a federal lawsuit, the Trump campaign alleged a number of irregularities — [such as that GOP election observers were told to stand six feet away from ballot counters because of the coronavirus](https://www.businessinsider.com/trump-michigan-election-lawsuit-poll-watchers-social-distancing-complaints-2020-11) — meant that Michigan should not certify its votes. The Trump campaign [withdrew the lawsuit](https://www.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.miwd.99598/gov.uscourts.miwd.99598.33.0.pdf), with [Rudy Giuliani falsely declaring it achieved the result the campaign wanted](https://twitter.com/WardDPatrick/status/1329444160701685762).
- A judge on the Michigan Court of Claims denied the Trump campaign's request to stop counting ballots in the state. [Judge Cynthia Stephens said](https://www.michigan.gov/documents/ag/20201106_Opin_and_Ord_707156_7.pdf) litigating the issue didn't make sense given that ballots in Michigan had more or less been fully counted.
- A poll challenger named Sarah Stoddard and a group called the Election Integrity Fund [filed a lawsuit](https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/local/detroit-city/2020/11/05/election-challenger-suit-halt-detroit-absentee-vote-count/6181615002/) seeking to stop the certification of election results in Detroit, claiming that absentee ballots were improperly reviewed. Judge Timothy Kenny [denied](https://www.michigan.gov/documents/ag/Stoddard_et_al_v_City_Election_Commission_et_al_-_11-06-2020_707182_7.pdf) the motion on the grounds that there was no proof that election oversight protocol hadn't been followed. Kenny issued another ruling later denying other motions, including [a request for an additional audit of the election](https://beta.documentcloud.org/documents/20407012-michigan-election-lawsuit-kenney-costantino-et-al-v-wayne-boc-et-al-opinion-order).
- A [Republican-aligned law firm](https://greatlakesjc.org/cases/costantino_v_detroit/) called the Great Lakes Justice Center [filed a lawsuit](https://greatlakesjc.org/wp-content/uploads/Complaint-Costantino-FINAL-With-Exhibits.pdf?x44644) in Wayne County's Circuit Court against Detroit and Wayne County alleging "massive fraud in the election vote-counting procedures" and calling for an entirely new election. A judge [denied](https://www.wsj.com/articles/michigan-judge-denies-conservative-group-s-request-to-delay-detroit-election-certification-11605295879) the case.
    - `Perhaps if Plaintiffs’ election challenger affiants had attended the October 29, 2020 walk-through of the TCF Center ballot counting location, questions and concerns could have been answered in advance of Election Day. Regrettably, they did not and, therefore, Plaintiffs’ affiants did not have a full understanding of the TCF absent ballot tabulation process. No formal challenges were filed. However, sinister, fraudulent motives were ascribed to the process and the City of Detroit. Plaintiffs’ interpretation of events is incorrect and not credible.` - [link](https://web.archive.org/web/20210522064008/https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/Scanned-from-a-Xerox-Multifunction-Printer.pdf)
- Trump ally Sidney Powell also has a federal lawsuit pending in Michigan. It asks the judge to "de-certify" the state's electoral votes, which have already gone to Biden. The lawsuit [has numerous typos](https://www.businessinsider.com/sidney-powell-hypes-election-lawsuit-despite-trump-disowning-2020-11) and [cites voting statistics from a county that does not exist](https://www.businessinsider.com/sidney-powell-election-lawsuit-witness-vote-problems-edison-county-2020-12). A judge [ruled against her](https://www.businessinsider.com/sidney-powell-loses-2-kraken-lawsuits-in-one-day-in-georgia-michigan-2020-12) and issued a scathing 35-page opinion tearing it down on multiple fronts. She has [appealed it all the way to the Supreme Court](https://lawandcrime.com/2020-election/kraken-concerned-about-elementh-amendment-lands-on-scotus-docket-asks-court-do-what-the-ghosts-on-other-side-of-potomac-would-have-wanted/), which [has not yet decided](https://www.supremecourt.gov/search.aspx?filename=/docket/docketfiles/html/public/20-815.html) whether to take the case.
## Massachusetts
### John Paul Moran, et al. v. Commonwealth of Massachusetts, et al.
## Minnesota
### Hahn v. Simon,
### Jensen v. Simon, Peterson v. Simon, Rodriguez v. Simon, Braun v. Simon, 
### Quist v. Simon
### Kistner v. Simon
## Nevada
- The Trump campaign filed a lawsuit requesting that ballots stop being counted in the state over concerns about signature-matching technology and election observers' claims that they weren't being allowed to watch ballots being processed closely enough. The Nevada Supreme Court [denied the request](https://news.bloomberglaw.com/us-law-week/trump-files-emergency-nevada-appeal-over-clark-county-ballots).
- The Trump campaign and the RNC filed a lawsuit in state court asking to stop ballot counting in Clark County — a heavily Democratic area — until GOP officials could observe the process. A district judge rejected the request on the grounds that the plaintiffs did not have evidence to back up their allegations. Republicans appealed the case to the Nevada Supreme Court, which said on November 5 that the campaign and Republican officials had [reached a settlement that allowed expanded ballot observation](https://news3lv.com/news/local/trump-campaign-reaches-settlement-in-nevada-lawsuit-to-expand-ballot-observation). They later [withdrew the case](https://apnews.com/article/trump-gop-drop-nevada-court-appeal-393931ac5e189e62d9bd89f2128ea675).
- A group of Republicans [[lawsuitdroppedovermore3000absen]], including those sent by members of the military.
- The Trump campaign [filed a different lawsuit](https://thenevadaindependent.com/article/trump-campaign-files-lawsuit-asking-judge-to-overturn-or-annul-nevadas-presidential-election-results) in Carson City District Court alleging multiple irregularities that the campaign claimed, without providing specific evidence, would be enough to overturn the election results in Nevada and flip the state to Trump. [It failed](https://thenevadaindependent.com/article/why-trumps-lawsuit-seeking-to-overturn-nevadas-presidential-race-sputtered-in-court).
## New Mexico
### Donald J. Trump for President v. Oliver et al.
- On 14 December 2020, The Trump campaign sued the state over what it claims was the illegal use of ballot drop boxes after the state had already certified its results and sent them to the Electoral College.
- On 11 January 2021, The Trump Campaign filed to voluntary dismiss the suit.
    - `COME NOW the Plaintiff Donald J. Trump for President, Inc., by and through its attorney of record Caruso Law Offices, PC by Mark J. Caruso, and respectfully requests this Court enter an Order dismissing all of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants without prejudice.` - [link](https://electioncases.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Trump-v-Toulouse-Oliver-Doc37.pdf)
## Pennsylvania
- `Free, fair elec­tions are the lifeblood of our demo­cracy. Charges of unfair­ness are seri­ous. But call­ing an elec­tion unfair does not make it so. Charges require specific alleg­a­tions and then proof. We have neither here.` - [link](https://www2.ca3.uscourts.gov/opinarch/203371np.pdf)
- The Trump campaign and the Republican National Committee filed a lawsuit asking a state appeals court to reject the Pennsylvania secretary of state's announcement that registered voters had until November 12 to provide proof of identity for mail-in ballots. Republicans believe the deadline should be November 9. This is the one case [that Trump won](https://www.post-gazette.com/news/crime-courts/2020/11/12/trump-campaign-election-2020-presidential-pennsylvania-lawsuit-ballots-late-identification/stories/202011120132), before the state Supreme Court [overturned the lower court decision](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/nov/17/philadelphia-donald-trump-us-elections-2020-joe-biden).
- In [a wide-ranging federal lawsuit](https://www.businessinsider.com/trump-pennsylvania-election-lawsuit-allege-voter-fraud-2-counties-2020-11), the Trump campaign sued over alleged irregularities in the way ballots were counted throughout the state. They've [argued that 14,000 votes should be thrown out](https://www.businessinsider.com/trump-campaign-lawsuit-pennsylvania-votes-biden-enough-win-2020-11). The campaign submitted [a revised version of the lawsuit](https://www.businessinsider.com/trump-campaign-drops-part-of-pa-lawsuit-regarding-election-observers-2020-11) days later that retracted many of its original allegations. A judge [threw out the case](https://www.businessinsider.com/federal-judge-brann-rejects-trump-campaign-lawsuit-pennsylvania-2020-11), saying Trump's lawyers presented the court "with [strained legal arguments](https://www.businessinsider.com/pennsylvania-defense-lawyers-shredded-rudy-giuliani-trump-election-lawsuit-2020-11) without merit and speculative accusations, unpaid in the operative complaint and unsupported by evidence." An appeal of the case [also failed](https://www.justsecurity.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Trump.pdf).
    - `This claim, like Franken­stein’s Monster, has been haphaz­ardly stitched together` ... `This Court has been presen­ted with strained legal argu­ments without merit and spec­u­lat­ive accus­a­tions, unpled in the oper­at­ive complaint and unsupported by evid­ence. In the United States of Amer­ica, this cannot justify the disen­fran­chise­ment of a single voter, let alone all the voters of its sixth most popu­lated state. Our people, laws, and insti­tu­tions demand more` - [link](https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.pamd.127057/gov.uscourts.pamd.127057.202.0_1.pdf)
- [Another federal lawsuit](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/10/show_temp.pl-4.pdf) brought by Republicans sought to delay the deadline for ballot requests. The judge [rejected it](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/10/Third-Circuit-Opinion.pdf).
- A third federal lawsuit [sought to stop](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/Eastern-District-Complaint.pdf) the Montgomery County Board of Elections from allowing voters to "cure" their ballots — a process that allows people to fix clerical errors on their ballots to make sure their votes count. Republicans [abandoned the lawsuit and withdrew from the case](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/ORDER-1.pdf).
- The campaign sued in yet another federal case [to stop Philadelphia County from counting votes](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/FullText.pdf) without Republicans present. The judge [dismissed the case](https://whyy.org/articles/trump-asks-federal-court-to-stop-vote-counting-in-phiadelphia/) after Trump's lawyers said Republican election watchers were, in fact, present.
- In another Montgomery County case, [this one filed in a local court](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/Donald-J.-Trump-for-President-Inc.-v.-Montgomery-County-Board-of-Elections.pdf), Trump's lawyers sought to stop the county from counting mail-in ballots. [The lawyers withdrew from the case](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/nov/13/trump-law-firm-withdraws-pennsylvania-election-case).
- A lawsuit in Bucks County filed by Republican congressional candidate Kathy Barnette on Election Day made a technical challenge on the county's method of organizing ballots before counting them. She [withdrew the case](https://www.buckscountycouriertimes.com/story/news/2020/11/05/barnette-withdraws-mail-ballot-lawsuit-montgomery-county-election/6176910002/) two days later and lost the election.
- The Trump campaign [appealed that Bucks County case](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/TS-Petition-for-Review-of-Decision-by-Bucks-County-Board-of-Elections-11.9.2020-1.pdf) soon afterward, but a judge [rejected it](http://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2020/images/11/19/scan.document_11192020_041015.pdf) and [pointed out in his ruling](https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/19/politics/arizona-pennsylvania-georgia-lawsuits-trump-biden/index.html) that fraud wasn't an issue.
- In a state court, Republicans [challenged an instruction from the Secretary of State's office regarding provisional ballots](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/Preview_08501C84-5760-47CE-A63C-47106B07AB6D-1.pdf). A state appellate court judge [dismissed](https://twitter.com/johnkruzel/status/1324811512003891202) the request but [ordered](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/FILE-8407.pdf) the secretary of state to [segregate](https://www.businessinsider.com/why-pennsylvania-texas-minnesota-segregating-ballots-in-case-thrown-out-2020-11) provisional ballots in case their validity becomes contested.
- Local Republicans sought to stop Northampton County from revealing the identities of people whose ballots were canceled and [lost the case](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/ORDER-11-3-20.pdf).
- A group of Pennsylvania Republicans [lost](https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/28/politics/pennsylvania-state-supreme-court-election-case/index.html) at the state Supreme Court with a lawsuit trying to invalidate absentee voting after the voting period already ended, and trying to block the certification of election results.
- Another group of Republicans filed [a similar lawsuit](https://www.democracydocket.com/cases/pennsylvania-decertification-challenge/) and lost.
- The Trump campaign filed a [motion to intervene in a Supreme Court case](https://www.businessinsider.com/how-trump-may-challenge-2020-election-supreme-court-2020-11) brought by Republicans that centers on the deadline by which Pennsylvania officials are allowed to receive ballots. Pennsylvania's Supreme Court ruled that officials could receive ballots until November 6 as long as they are postmarked by Election Day. Republicans appealed the decision to the high court, which was deadlocked at 4-4 because Justice Amy Coney Barrett did not participate, leaving the lower court's ruling in place. The Supreme Court signaled it could hear the case again but has not granted the request to intervene.
## Texas
### Gohmert v. Pence
## Washington D.C.
### Wisconsin Voters Alliance v. Pence,
## Wisconsin
- The Wisconsin Supreme Court [rejected a case](https://apnews.com/article/election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-wisconsin-lawsuits-2917742813e06908608848410ff41b0c) from the Trump campaign seeking to overturn election results.
- Trump personally filed a similar lawsuit in a federal court in Wisconsin. A Trump-appointed federal judge said he had standing to bring the case — a rare departure from other judges — [and then ruled against him](https://www.jsonline.com/story/news/politics/2020/12/12/trump-wisconsin-lawsuit-dismissed-federal-judge/3894689001/). [An appeal failed as well](https://www.politico.com/news/2020/12/24/trump-loses-wisconsin-georgia-450433), with the author of the appellate opinion also a Trump appointee.
- Wisconsin Voters Alliance, a right-wing group, [sued the state elections commission](https://www.wpr.org/lawsuit-asks-wisconsin-supreme-court-throw-out-results-presidential-election) and asked the state Supreme Court to throw out votes and have the Republican-controlled state legislature select the electoral college winner themselves. [The state Supreme Court rejected it, saying it had little basis in fact](https://www.channel3000.com/state-supreme-court-rejects-lawsuit-from-conservative-group-attempting-to-prevent-certification-of-election-results/).
    - `At stake, in some meas­ure, is faith in our system of free and fair elec­tions, a feature cent­ral to the endur­ing strength of our consti­tu­tional repub­lic. It can be easy to blithely move on to the next case with a peti­tion so obvi­ously lack­ing, but this is sober­ing. The relief being sought by the peti­tion­ers is the most dramatic invoc­a­tion of judi­cial power I have ever seen. Judi­cial acqui­es­cence to such entreat­ies built on so flimsy a found­a­tion would do indelible damage to every future elec­tion.` - [link](https://web.archive.org/web/20210522064207/https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/2020AP1930-OAfinal-12-4-20.pdf)
- Wisconsin Voter Alliance also sued a number of defendants in Washington, DC, including Vice President Mike Pence, both houses of Congress, and the Electoral College, trying to block the certification of Wisconsin's votes as well as those of other states. [A federal judge threw out the case](https://www.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.dcd.225330/gov.uscourts.dcd.225330.10.0_1.pdf), blasted it as an attempted "undermining of a democratic election" full of falsehoods, and said he would refer the attorneys for sanctions.
- [Another lawsuit](https://www.wpr.org/new-lawsuit-asks-state-supreme-court-toss-nov-3-election-results) backed by the Republican-aligned Amos Center for Justice and Liberty argued that the use of ballot drop-boxes was illegal. It also asked that the state Supreme Court should throw out every vote cast and have the GOP legislature select the state's electoral votes. A judge [ruled it moot](https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/11/2020AP1958-OA-12-3-20.pdf).
- A lawsuit from Sidney Powell and Lin Wood, another Trump ally, makes numerous conspiratorial claims about the election. A federal judge [criticized it for containing errors and typos, and one person listed as plaintiff said they never signed up to be a part of the lawsuit](https://lawandcrime.com/2020-election/wisconsin-federal-judge-picks-apart-sidney-powell-and-lin-woods-lawsuit-in-brutal-order/), later [dismissing the case](https://www.businessinsider.com/sidney-powell-lawsuits-dismissed-michigan-georgia-arizona-wisconsin-2020-12).
- Trump and Pence personally sued Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris in a state court [seeking to overturn votes](https://lawandcrime.com/2020-election/outgoing-trump-white-house-sues-incoming-biden-white-house-to-disenfranchise-wisconsins-most-diverse-counties/) in two Wisconsin counties with large Black populations, both of which sided with Democrats. A judge [threw out the case](https://www.businessinsider.com/trump-loses-wisconsin-election-lawsuit-challenging-mail-votes-2020-12). When Trump appealed the case, another judge rejected it and [said it "smacks of racism."](https://www.businessinsider.com/wisconsin-trump-election-fraud-lawsuit-smacks-of-racism-judge-says-2020-12) [An appeal to the Supreme Court also failed](https://www.wicourts.gov/sc/opinion/DisplayDocument.pdf?content=pdf&seqNo=315395).
# Fake Electors Plot
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_fake_electors_plot)
- [link](https://www.archives.gov/foia/2020-presidential-election-unofficial-certificates)

# Trump–Raffensperger Phone Call
- On 2 January 2021, Trump held a one-hour phone call with Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger. Trump was joined by chief of staff Mark Meadows, trade adviser Peter Navarro, Justice Department official John Lott, law professor John C. Eastman, and attorneys Rudy Giuliani, Cleta Mitchell, Alex Kaufman, and Kurt Hilbert. Raffensperger was joined by his general counsel Ryan Germany.
- Trump pressured Raffensperger to change the state's election results citing that Trump wanted to find 11,780 votes. 
    - `Trump: Okay, whatever, it’s a disaster. It’s a disaster. Look. Here’s the problem. We can go through signature verification, and we’ll find hundreds of thousands of signatures, if you let us do it. And the only way you can do it, as you know, is to go to the past. But you didn’t do that in Cobb County. You just looked at one page compared to another. The only way you can do a signature verification is go from the one that signed it on November whatever. Recently. And compare it to two years ago, four years ago, six years ago, you know, or even one. And you’ll find that you have many different signatures. But in Fulton, where they dumped ballots, you will find that you have many that aren’t even signed and you have many that are forgeries.`
      
      `Okay, you know that. You know that. You have no doubt about that. And you will find you will be at 11,779 within minutes because Fulton County is totally corrupt, and so is she totally corrupt.`
      
      `And they’re going around playing you and laughing at you behind your back, Brad, whether you know it or not, they’re laughing at you. And you’ve taken a state that’s a Republican state, and you’ve made it almost impossible for a Republican to win because of cheating, because they cheated like nobody’s ever cheated before. And I don’t care how long it takes me, you know, we’re going to have other states coming forward — pretty good.`
      
      `But I won’t . . . this is never . . . this is . . . We have some incredible talent said they’ve never seen anything . . . Now the problem is they need more time for the big numbers. But they’re very substantial numbers. But I think you’re going to find that they — by the way, a little information — I think you’re going to find that they are shredding ballots because they have to get rid of the ballots because the ballots are unsigned. The ballots are corrupt, and they’re brand new, and they don’t have seals, and there’s a whole thing with the ballots. But the ballots are corrupt.`
      
      `And you are going to find that they are — which is totally illegal — it is more illegal for you than it is for them because, you know, what they did and you’re not reporting it. That’s a criminal, that’s a criminal offense. And you can’t let that happen. That’s a big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer. And that’s a big risk. But they are shredding ballots, in my opinion, based on what I’ve heard. And they are removing machinery, and they’re moving it as fast as they can, both of which are criminal finds. And you can’t let it happen, and you are letting it happen. You know, I mean, I’m notifying you that you’re letting it happen. So look. All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have because we won the state.`
      
      `And flipping the state is a great testament to our country because, you know, this is — it’s a testament that they can admit to a mistake or whatever you want to call it. If it was a mistake, I don’t know. A lot of people think it wasn’t a mistake. It was much more criminal than that. But it’s a big problem in Georgia, and it’s not a problem that’s going away. I mean, you know, it’s not a problem that’s going away.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
- Trump repeated the State Farm Video claims to Raffensperger multiple times, to which Trump was rebutted about their falsehood. `[name]` is Ruby Freeman.
    - Trump: `We had at least 18,000 — that’s on tape, we had them counted very painstakingly — 18,000 voters having to do with [name]. She’s a vote scammer, a professional vote scammer and hustler [name]. That was the tape that’s been shown all over the world that makes everybody look bad, you, me and everybody else.`
      
      `Where they got — number one they said very clearly and it’s been reported that they said there was a major water main break. Everybody fled the area. And then they came back, [name] and her daughter and a few people. There were no Republican poll watchers. Actually, there were no Democrat poll watchers, I guess they were them. But there were no Democrats, either, and there was no law enforcement. Late in the morning, early in the morning, they went to the table with the black robe and the black shield, and they pulled out the votes. Those votes were put there a number of hours before — the table was put there — I think it was, Brad, you would know, it was probably eight hours or seven hours before, and then it was stuffed with votes.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
    - `Trump: But, Cleta, even before you do that, and not even including that, that’s why I hardly even included that number, although in one state, we have a tremendous amount of dead people. So I don’t know — I’m sure we do in Georgia, too. I’m sure we do in Georgia, too.`
      
      `We’re so far ahead of these numbers, even the phony ballots of [name] , known scammer. You know the Internet? You know what was trending on the Internet? “Where’s [name]?” Because they thought she’d be in jail. “Where’s [name]?” It’s crazy, it’s crazy. That was. The minimum number is 18,000 for [name] , but they think it’s probably about 56,000, but the minimum number is 18,000 on the [name] night where she ran back in there when everybody was gone and stuffed, she stuffed the ballot boxes. Let’s face it, Brad, I mean. They did it in slow motion replay magnified, right? She stuffed the ballot boxes. They were stuffed like nobody has ever seen them stuffed before.`
      
      `So there’s a term for it when it’s a machine instead of a ballot box, but she stuffed the machine. She stuffed the ballot. Each ballot went three times, they were showing: Here’s ballot No 1. Here it is a second time, third time, next ballot.`
      
      `I mean, look. Brad. We have a new tape that we’re going to release. It’s devastating. And by the way, that one event, that one event is much more than the 11,000 votes that we’re talking about. It’s, you know, that one event was a disaster. And it’s just, you know, but it was, it was something, it can’t be disputed. And again, we have a version that you haven’t seen, but it’s magnified. It’s magnified, and you can see everything. For some reason, they put it in three times, each ballot, and I don’t know why. I don’t know why three times. Why not five times, right? Go ahead.`
      
      `Raffensperger: You’re talking about the State Farm video. And I think it’s extremely unfortunate that Rudy Giuliani or his people, they sliced and diced that video and took it out of context. The next day, we brought in WSB-TV, and we let them show, see the full run of tape, and what you’ll see, the events that transpired are nowhere near what was projected by, you know —`
      
      `Trump: But where were the poll watchers, Brad? There were no poll watchers there. There were no Democrats or Republicans. There was no security there.`
      
      `It was late in the evening, late in the, early in the morning, and there was nobody else in the room. Where were the poll watchers, and why did they say a water main broke, which they did and which was reported in the newspapers? They said they left. They ran out because of a water main break, and there was no water main. There was nothing. There was no break. There was no water main break. But we’re, if you take out everything, where were the Republican poll watchers, even where were the Democrat pollwatchers, because there were none.`
      
      `And then you say, well, they left their station, you know, if you look at the tape, and this was, this was reviewed by professional police and detectives and other people, when they left in a rush, everybody left in a rush because of the water main, but everybody left in a rush. These people left their station.`
      
      `When they came back, they didn’t go to their station. They went to the apron, wrapped around the table, under which were thousands and thousands of ballots in a box that was not an official or a sealed box. And then they took those. They went back to a different station. So if they would have come back, they would have walked to their station, and they would have continued to work. But they couldn’t do even that because that’s illegal, because they had no Republican pollwatchers. And remember, her reputation is — she’s known all over the Internet, Brad. She’s known all over.`
      
      `I’m telling you, “Where’s [name] ” was one of the hot items . . . [name] They knew her. “Where’s [name]?” So Brad, there can be no justification for that. And I, you know, I give everybody the benefit of the doubt. But that was — and Brad, why did they put the votes in three times? You know, they put ’em in three times.`
      
      `Raffensperger: Mr. President, they did not put that. We did an audit of that, and we proved conclusively that they were not scanned three times.`
      
      `Trump: Where was everybody else at that late time in the morning? Where was everybody? Where were the Republicans? Where were the security guards? Were the people that were there just a little while before when everyone ran out of the room. How come we had no security in the room. Why did they run to the bottom of the table? Why do they run there and just open the skirt and rip out the votes. I mean, Brad. And they were sitting there, I think for five hours or something like that, the votes.`
      
      `Raffensperger: Mr. President, we’ll send you the link from WSB.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
	- Trump: `So what are we going to do here, folks? I only need 11,000 votes. Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break. You know, we have that in spades already. Or we can keep it going, but that’s not fair to the voters of Georgia because they’re going to see what happened, and they’re going to see what happened. I mean, I’ll, I’ll take on anybody you want with regard to [name] and her lovely daughter, a very lovely young lady, I’m sure. But, but [name] . . . I will take on anybody you want. And the minimum, there were 18,000 ballots, but they used them three times. So that’s, you know, a lot of votes. And they were all to Biden, by the way, that’s the other thing we didn’t say. You know, [name] , the one thing I forgot to say, which was the most important. You know that every single ballot she did went to Biden. You know that, right? Do you know that, by the way, Brad?`
	  
	  `Every single ballot that she did through the machines at early, early in the morning went to Biden. Did you know that, Ryan?`
	  
	  `Germany: That’s not accurate, Mr. President.`
	  
	  `Trump: Huh. What is accurate?`
	  
	  `Germany: The numbers that we are showing are accurate.`
	  
	  `Trump: No, about [name] . About early in the morning, Ryan. Where the woman took, you know, when the whole gang took the stuff from under the table, right? Do you know, do you know who those ballots, do you know who they were made out to, do you know who they were voting for?`
	  
	  `Germany: No, not specifically.`
	  
	  `Trump: Did you ever check?`
	  
	  `Germany: We did what I described to you earlier —`
	  
	  `Trump: No no no — did you ever check the ballots that were scanned by [name] , a known political operative, balloteer? Did ever check who those votes were for?`
	  
	  `Germany: We looked into that situation that you described.`
	  
	  `Trump: No, they were 100 percent for Biden. 100 percent. There wasn’t a Trump vote in the whole group. Why don’t you want to find this, Ryan? What’s wrong with you? I heard your lawyer is very difficult, actually, but I’m sure you’re a good lawyer. You have a nice last name.`
	  
	  `But, but I’m just curious, why wouldn’t, why do you keep fighting this thing? It just doesn’t make sense. We’re way over the 17,779, right? We’re way over that number, and just if you took just [name] , we’re over that number by five, five or six times when you multiply that times three.`
	  
	  `And every single ballot went to Biden, and you didn’t know that, but now you know it. So tell me, Brad, what are we going to do? We won the election, and it’s not fair to take it away from us like this. And it’s going to be very costly in many ways. And I think you have to say that you’re going to reexamine it, and you can reexamine it, but reexamine it with people that want to find answers, not people that don’t want to find answers. For instance, I’m hearing Ryan that he’s probably, I’m sure a great lawyer and everything, but he’s making statements about those ballots that he doesn’t know. But he’s making them with such — he did make them with surety. But now I think he’s less sure because the answer is, they all went to Biden, and that alone wins us the election by a lot. You know, so.`
	  
	  `Raffensperger: Mr. President, you have people that submit information, and we have our people that submit information. And then it comes before the court, and the court then has to make a determination. We have to stand by our numbers. We believe our numbers are right.`
	  
	  `Trump: Why do you say that, though? I don’t know. I mean, sure, we can play this game with the courts, but why do you say that? First of all, they don’t even assign us a judge. They don’t even assign us a judge. But why wouldn’t you . . . Hey Brad, why wouldn’t you want to check out [name] ? And why wouldn’t you want to say, hey, if in fact, President Trump is right about that, then he wins the state of Georgia, just that one incident alone without going through hundreds of thousands of dropped ballots. You just say, you stick by, I mean I’ve been watching you, you know, you don’t care about anything. “Your numbers are right.” But your numbers aren’t right. They’re really wrong, and they’re really wrong, Brad. And I know this phone call is going nowhere other than, other than ultimately, you know — Look, ultimately, I win, okay? Because you guys are so wrong. And you treated this. You treated the population of Georgia so badly. You, between you and your governor, who is down at 21, he was down 21 points. And like a schmuck, I endorsed him, and he got elected, but I will tell you, he is a disaster.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
- Trump also repeated the Dominion Machines fraud claims to Raffensperger multiple times.
	- Trump: `The bottom line is, when you add it all up and then you start adding, you know, 300,000 fake ballots. Then the other thing they said is in Fulton County and other areas. And this may or may not be true . . . this just came up this morning, that they are burning their ballots, that they are shredding, shredding ballots and removing equipment. They’re changing the equipment on the Dominion machines and, you know, that’s not legal.`
	  
	  `And they supposedly shredded I think they said 300 pounds of, 3,000 pounds of ballots. And that just came to us as a report today. And it is a very sad situation.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
	- `Raffensperger: Well, I listened to what the president has just said. President Trump, we’ve had several lawsuits, and we’ve had to respond in court to the lawsuits and the contentions. We don’t agree that you have won. And we don’t — I didn’t agree about the 200,000 number that you’d mentioned. I’ll go through that point by point.`
	  
	  `What we have done is we gave our state Senate about one and a half hours of our time going through the election issue by issue and then on the state House, the government affairs committee, we gave them about two and a half hours of our time, going back point by point on all the issues of contention. And then just a few days ago, we met with our U.S. congressmen, Republican congressmen, and we gave them about two hours of our time talking about this past election. Going back, primarily what you’ve talked about here focused in on primarily, I believe, is the absentee ballot process. I don’t believe that you’re really questioning the Dominion machines. Because we did a hand re-tally, a 100 percent re-tally of all the ballots, and compared them to what the machines said and came up with virtually the same result. Then we did the recount, and we got virtually the same result. So I guess we can probably take that off the table.`
	  
	  `I don’t think there’s an issue about that.`
	  
	  `Trump: Well, Brad. Not that there’s not an issue, because we have a big issue with Dominion in other states and perhaps in yours. But we haven’t felt we needed to go there. And just to, you know, maybe put a little different spin on what Mark is saying, Mark Meadows, yeah we’d like to go further, but we don’t really need to. We have all the votes we need.`
	  
	  `You know, we won the state. If you took, these are the most minimal numbers, the numbers that I gave you, those are numbers that are certified, your absentee ballots sent to vacant addresses, your out-of-state voters, 4,925. You know when you add them up, it’s many more times, it’s many times the 11,779 number. So we could go through, we have not gone through your Dominion. So we can’t give them blessing. I mean, in other states, we think we found tremendous corruption with Dominion machines, but we’ll have to see.`
	  
	  `But we only lost the state by that number, 11,000 votes, and 779. So with that being said, with just what we have, with just what we have, we’re giving you minimal, minimal numbers. We’re doing the most conservative numbers possible; we’re many times, many, many times above the margin. And so we don’t really have to, Mark, I don’t think we have to go through . . .`
	  
	  `Meadows: Right`
	  
	  `Trump: Because what’s the difference between winning the election by two votes and winning it by half a million votes. I think I probably did win it by half a million. You know, one of the things that happened, Brad, is we have other people coming in now from Alabama and from South Carolina and from other states, and they’re saying it’s impossible for you to have lost Georgia. We won. You know in Alabama, we set a record, got the highest vote ever. In Georgia, we set a record with a massive amount of votes. And they say it’s not possible to have lost Georgia.`
	  
	  `And I could tell you by our rallies. I could tell you by the rally I’m having on Monday night, the place, they already have lines of people standing out front waiting. It’s just not possible to have lost Georgia. It’s not possible. When I heard it was close, I said there’s no way. But they dropped a lot of votes in there late at night. You know that, Brad. And that’s what we are working on very, very stringently. But regardless of those votes, with all of it being said, we lost by essentially 11,000 votes, and we have many more votes already calculated and certified, too.`
	  
	  `And so I just don’t know, you know, Mark, I don’t know what’s the purpose. I won’t give Dominion a pass because we found too many bad things. But we don’t need Dominion or anything else. We have won this election in Georgia based on all of this. And there’s nothing wrong with saying that, Brad. You know, I mean, having the correct — the people of Georgia are angry. And these numbers are going to be repeated on Monday night. Along with others that we’re going to have by that time, which are much more substantial even. And the people of Georgia are angry, the people of the country are angry. And there’s nothing wrong with saying that, you know, that you’ve recalculated. Because the 2,236 in absentee ballots. I mean, they’re all exact numbers that were done by accounting firms, law firms, etc. And even if you cut ’em in half, cut ’em in half and cut ’em in half again, it’s more votes than we need.`
	  
	  `Raffensperger: Well, Mr. President, the challenge that you have is the data you have is wrong. We talked to the congressmen, and they were surprised.`
	  
	  `But they — I guess there was a person named Mr. Braynard who came to these meetings and presented data, and he said that there was dead people, I believe it was upward of 5,000. The actual number were two. Two. Two people that were dead that voted. So that’s wrong.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
	- `Trump: Cleta, a lot of it you don’t need to be shared. I mean, to be honest, they should share it. They should share it because you want to get to an honest election.`
	  
	  `I won this election by hundreds of thousands of votes. There’s no way I lost Georgia. There’s no way. We won by hundreds of thousands of votes. I’m just going by small numbers, when you add them up, they’re many times the 11,000. But I won that state by hundreds of thousands of votes.`
	  
	  `Do you think it’s possible that they shredded ballots in Fulton County? Because that’s what the rumor is. And also that Dominion took out machines. That Dominion is really moving fast to get rid of their, uh, machinery.`
	  
	  `Do you know anything about that? Because that’s illegal, right?`
	  
	  `Germany: This is Ryan Germany. No, Dominion has not moved any machinery out of Fulton County.`
	  
	  `Trump: But have they moved the inner parts of the machines and replaced them with other parts?`
	  
	  `Germany: No.`
	  
	  `Trump: Are you sure, Ryan?`
	  
	  `Germany: I’m sure. I’m sure, Mr. President.`
	  
	  `Trump: What about, what about the ballots. The shredding of the ballots. Have they been shredding ballots?`
	  
	  `Germany: The only investigation that we have into that — they have not been shredding any ballots. There was an issue in Cobb County where they were doing normal office shredding, getting rid of old stuff, and we investigated that. But this stuff from, you know, from you know past elections.`
	  
	  `Trump: It doesn’t pass the smell test because we hear they’re shredding thousands and thousands of ballots, and now what they’re saying, “Oh, we’re just cleaning up the office.” You know.`
	  
	  `Raffensperger: Mr. President, the problem you have with social media, they — people can say anything.`
	  
	  `Trump: Oh this isn’t social media. This is Trump media. It’s not social media. It’s really not; it’s not social media. I don’t care about social media. I couldn’t care less. Social media is Big Tech. Big Tech is on your side, you know. I don’t even know why you have a side because you should want to have an accurate election. And you’re a Republican.`
	  
	  `Raffensperger: We believe that we do have an accurate election.`
	  
	  `Trump: No, no you don’t. No, no you don’t. You don’t have. Not even close. You’re off by hundreds of thousands of votes. And just on the small numbers, you’re off on these numbers, and these numbers can’t be just — well, why wont?` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
	- `Mitchell: Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, one of the things that we have been, Alex can talk about this, we talked about it, and I don’t know whether the information has been conveyed to your office, but I think what the president is saying, and what we’ve been trying to do is to say, look, the court is not acting on our petition. They haven’t even assigned a judge. But the people of Georgia and the people of America have a right to know the answers. And you have data and records that we don’t have access to.`
	  
	  `And you can keep telling us and making public statement that you investigated this and nothing to see here. But we don’t know about that. All we know is what you tell us. What I don’t understand is why wouldn’t it be in everyone’s best interest to try to get to the bottom, compare the numbers, you know, if you say, because . . . to try to be able to get to the truth because we don’t have any way of confirming what you’re telling us. You tell us that you had an investigation at the State Farm Arena. I don’t have any report. I’ve never seen a report of investigation. I don’t know that is. I’ve been pretty involved in this, and I don’t know. And that’s just one of 25 categories. And it doesn’t even. And as I, as the president said, we haven’t even gotten into the Dominion issue. That’s not part of our case. It’s not part of, we just didn’t feel as though we had any to be able to develop —`
	  
	  `Trump: No, we do have a way, but I don’t want to get into it. We found a way . . . excuse me, but we don’t need it because we’re only down 11,000 votes, so we don’t even need it. I personally think they’re corrupt as hell. But we don’t need that. All we have to do, Cleta, is find 11,000-plus votes. So we don’t need that. I’m not looking to shake up the whole world. We won Georgia easily. We won it by hundreds of thousands of votes. But if you go by basic, simple numbers, we won it easily, easily. So we’re not giving Dominion a pass on the record. We don’t need Dominion because we have so many other votes that we don’t need to prove it any more than we already have.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
- Trump also repeated the Pennsylvania Unregistered Voters claims to Raffensperger.
	- Trump: `In Pennsylvania, they had well over 200,000 more votes than they had people voting. And that doesn’t play too well, and the legislature there is, which is Republican, is extremely activist and angry. I mean, there were other things also that were almost as bad as that.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
	- `Raffensperger: Well, I listened to what the president has just said. President Trump, we’ve had several lawsuits, and we’ve had to respond in court to the lawsuits and the contentions. We don’t agree that you have won. And we don’t — I didn’t agree about the 200,000 number that you’d mentioned. I’ll go through that point by point.` - [Transcript and audio: Trump call with Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger, The Washington Post, 2021](https://archive.ph/BMC7Q)
- On 3 January 2021, Trump then tweeted the false State Farm claim saying Raffensperger couldn't account for voter fraud in Georgia.
	- `I spoke to Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger yesterday about Fulton County and voter fraud in Georgia. He was unwilling, or unable, to answer questions such as the “ballots under table” scam, ballot destruction, out of state “voters”, dead voters, and more. He has no clue!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://x.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1345731043861659650)
- On 3 January 2021, Raffensperger replied to Trump's tweet denying the claim.
	- `Respectfully, President Trump: What you're saying is not true. The truth will come out` - [@GaSecofState Tweet, 2021](https://x.com/GaSecofState/status/1345753643593687040)
- On 4 January 2021, Raffensperger released the call in full to the press. 
	- [Full Phone Call: Trump Pressures Georgia Secretary of State To Recount Election Votes, YouTube, 2021](https://youtu.be/AW_Bdf_jGaA?si=hU5Lem4EkJ9sRijv)
- This call was used in the [2020- Georgia Election Racketeering Prosecution](2020-%20Georgia%20Election%20Racketeering%20Prosecution) as evidence for committing a felony offence of false statements and writings and accused Trump of committing an act of racketeering. The inditement included 13 statements Trump said during the call. This charge was compounded by the tweet Trump made the day after, with it being called a overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy.

# January 6 Capitol Hill Insurrection
- On 6 January 2021 @ 1:00AM EST, President Trump tweeted,
    - `If Vice President @Mike_Pence comes through for us, we will win the Presidency. Many States want to decertify the mistake they made in certifying incorrect & even fraudulent numbers in a process NOT approved by their State Legislatures (which it must be). Mike can send it back!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://web.archive.org/web/20210106060056/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346698217304584192)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 8:17AM EST, President Trump tweeted,
    - `States want to correct their votes, which they now know were based on irregularities and fraud, plus corrupt process never received legislative approval. All Mike Pence has to do is send them back to the States, AND WE WIN. Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme courage!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://web.archive.org/web/20210106131747/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346808075626426371)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 8:22AM EST, President Trump tweeted,
	- `THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND, MORE IMPORTANTLY, OUR COUNTRY, NEEDS THE PRESIDENCY MORE THAN EVER BEFORE - THE POWER OF THE VETO. STAY STRONG!` [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://x.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1346809349214248962)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 11:57AM-13:10PM EST, Trump started his `Save America` Rally Speech, for more than an hour, repeating false claims about a stolen election and telling the crowd to “never give up” and “never concede.”
	- `We took them by surprise and this year they rigged an election. They rigged it like they've never rigged an election before.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `All of us here today do not want to see our election victory stolen by emboldened radical-left Democrats, which is what they're doing. And stolen by the fake news media. That's what they've done and what they're doing. We will never give up, we will never concede. It doesn't happen. You don't concede when there's theft involved.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `And to use a favorite term that all of you people really came up with: We will stop the steal. Today I will lay out just some of the evidence proving that we won this election and we won it by a landslide. This was not a close election.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `We didn't lose.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `We will not let them silence your voices. We're not going to let it happen, I'm not going to let it happen.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- Audience chants: `Fight for Trump.`, Trump: `Thank you.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `And Rudy, you did a great job. He's got guts. You know what? He's got guts, unlike a lot of people in the Republican Party. He's got guts. He fights, he fights.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `And he looked at Mike Pence, and I hope Mike is going to do the right thing. I hope so. I hope so. Because if Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the election. All he has to do, all this is, this is from the number one, or certainly one of the top, Constitutional lawyers in our country. He has the absolute right to do it. We're supposed to protect our country, support our country, support our Constitution, and protect our constitution.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `States want to revote. The states got defrauded. They were given false information. They voted on it. Now they want to recertify. They want it back. All Vice President Pence has to do is send it back to the states to recertify and we become president and you are the happiest people.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `And I actually, I just spoke to Mike. I said: "Mike, that doesn't take courage. What takes courage is to do nothing. That takes courage." And then we're stuck with a president who lost the election by a lot and we have to live with that for four more years. We're just not going to let that happen.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `We're gathered together in the heart of our nation's capital for one very, very basic and simple reason: To save our democracy.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `For years, Democrats have gotten away with election fraud and weak Republicans. And that's what they are. There's so many weak Republicans. And we have great ones. Jim Jordan and some of these guys, they're out there fighting. The House guys are fighting. But it's, it's incredible. Many of the Republicans, I helped them get in, I helped them get elected. I helped Mitch get elected. I helped.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `And you have to get your people to fight. And if they don't fight, we have to primary the hell out of the ones that don't fight. You primary them. We're going to. We're going to let you know who they are. I can already tell you, frankly.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `But this year, using the pretext of the China virus and the scam of mail-in ballots, Democrats attempted the most brazen and outrageous election theft and there's never been anything like this. So pure theft in American history. Everybody knows it.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `But we look at the facts and our election was so corrupt that in the history of this country we've never seen anything like it. You can go all the way back.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `Republicans are, Republicans are constantly fighting like a boxer with his hands tied behind his back. It's like a boxer. And we want to be so nice. We want to be so respectful of everybody, including bad people. And we're going to have to fight much harder.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `And Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us, and if he doesn't, that will be a, a sad day for our country because you're sworn to uphold our Constitution.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `Now, it is up to Congress to confront this egregious assault on our democracy. And after this, we're going to walk down, and I'll be there with you, we're going to walk down, we're going to walk down. Anyone you want, but I think right here, we're going to walk down to the Capitol, and we're going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women, and we're probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `Because you'll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength and you have to be strong. We have come to demand that Congress do the right thing and only count the electors who have been lawfully slated, lawfully slated.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `But we've done it quickly and we were going to sit home and watch a big victory and everybody had us down for a victory. It was going to be great and now we're out here fighting.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `Today we see a very important event though. Because right over there, right there, we see the event going to take place. And I'm going to be watching. Because history is going to be made. We're going to see whether or not we have great and courageous leaders, or whether or not we have leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity they'll be ashamed.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `We will not be intimidated into accepting the hoaxes and the lies that we've been forced to believe. Over the past several weeks, we've amassed overwhelming evidence about a fake election.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `By the way, Pennsylvania has now seen all of this. They didn't know because it was so quick. They had a vote. They voted. But now they see all this stuff, it's all come to light. Doesn't happen that fast. And they want to recertify their votes. They want to recertify. But the only way that can happen is if Mike Pence agrees to send it back. Mike Pence has to agree to send it back.` (Audience chants: `Send it back.`) - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `You will have an illegitimate president. That's what you'll have. And we can't let that happen.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `The radical left knows exactly what they're doing. They're ruthless and it's time that somebody did something about it. And Mike Pence, I hope you're going to stand up for the good of our Constitution and for the good of our country. And if you're not, I'm going to be very disappointed in you. I will tell you right now. I'm not hearing good stories."` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `So when you hear, when you hear, while there is no evidence to prove any wrongdoing, this is the most fraudulent thing anybody has, this is a criminal enterprise. This is a criminal enterprise.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `The Republicans have to get tougher. You're not going to have a Republican Party if you don't get tougher. They want to play so straight. They want to play so, sir, yes, the United States. The Constitution doesn't allow me to send them back to the States. Well, I say, yes it does, because the Constitution says you have to protect our country and you have to protect our Constitution, and you can't vote on fraud. And fraud breaks up everything, doesn't it? When you catch somebody in a fraud, you're allowed to go by very different rules.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `So I hope Mike has the courage to do what he has to do. And I hope he doesn't listen to the RINOs and the stupid people that he's listening to.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `We won in a landslide. This was a landslide. They said it's not American to challenge the election. This the most corrupt election in the history, maybe of the world.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `So today, in addition to challenging the certification of the election, I'm calling on Congress and the state legislatures to quickly pass sweeping election reforms, and you better do it before we have no country left.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `If we allow this group of people to illegally take over our country because it's illegal when the votes are illegal when the way they got there is illegal when the states that vote are given false and fraudulent information.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `We have overwhelming pride in this great country and we have it deep in our souls. Together, we are determined to defend and preserve government of the people, by the people and for the people.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
	- `But I said something's wrong here, something is really wrong, can have happened. And we fight. We fight like hell. And if you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
    - `So we’re going to, we’re going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue. I love Pennsylvania Avenue. And we’re going to the Capitol, and we’re going to try and give. The Democrats are hopeless, they never vote for anything. Not even one vote. But we’re going to try and give our Republicans, the weak ones because the strong ones don’t need any of our help. We’re going to try and give them the kind of pride and boldness that they need to take back our country. So let’s walk down Pennsylvania Avenue.` - [Transcript Of Trump's Speech At Rally Before Capitol Riot, NPR, 2021](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 13:00PM EST, An initial wave of protesters storms the outer barricade west of the Capitol building as senators and Vice President Pence walk to the House chamber. 
	- `1 p.m.`
	  
	  `An initial wave of protesters storms the outer barricade west of the Capitol building as senators and Vice President Pence walk to the House chamber.` - [Visual timeline: How Jan. 6, 2021 unraveled inside and outside the Capitol, Washington Post, 2021](https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/interactive/2021/capitol-insurrection-visual-timeline/?itid=hp-top-table-main-0106#:~:text=An%20initial%20wave%20of%20protesters%20storms%20the%20outer%20barricade%20west%20of%20the%20Capitol%20building%20as%20senators%20and%20Vice%20President%20Pence%20walk%20to%20the%20House%20chamber.)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 13:05PM EST, Vice President Pence released a letter about the Electoral College certification,
    - `Given the controversy surrounding this year's election, some approach this year's quadrennial tradition with great expectation, and others with dismissive disdain. Some believe that as Vice President, I should be able to accept or reject electoral votes unilaterally. Others believe that electoral votes should never be challenged in a Joint Session of Congress. After a careful study of our Constitution, our laws, and our history, I believe neither view is correct.` - [Pence Letter on Electoral College Certification, Office of the Vice President, 2021](https://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/pence-letter-on-vp-and-counting-electoral-votes/9d6f117b6b98d66f/full.pdf)
    - `Four years ago, surrounded by my family, I took an oath to support and defend the Constitution, which ended with the words, “ So help me God. ” Today I want to assure the American people that I will keep the oath I made to them and I will keep the oath I made to Almighty God. When the Joint Session of Congress convenes today, I will do my duty to see to it that we open the certificates of the Electors of the several states, we hear objections raised by Senators and Representatives, and we count the votes of the Electoral College for President and Vice President in a manner consistent with our Constitution, laws, and history. So Help Me God.` - [Pence Letter on Electoral College Certification, Office of the Vice President, 2021](https://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/pence-letter-on-vp-and-counting-electoral-votes/9d6f117b6b98d66f/full.pdf)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 13:30PM EST, After Trump’s speech, supporters begin marching toward the U.S. Capitol.
	- `1:30 p.m.`
	  
	  `After Trump’s speech, supporters begin marching toward the U.S. Capitol.` - [Visual timeline: How Jan. 6, 2021 unraveled inside and outside the Capitol, Washington Post, 2021](https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/interactive/2021/capitol-insurrection-visual-timeline/?itid=hp-top-table-main-0106#:~:text=restrictions.%20Read%C2%A0more%C2%A0%E2%86%92-,1%3A30%20p.m.,-After%20Trump%E2%80%99s%20speech)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 14:24PM EST, President Trump tweeted and then got deleted,
    - `Mike Pence didn’t have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country and our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify. USA demands the truth!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://web.archive.org/web/20210106192450/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346900434540240897)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 14:38PM EST, President Trump tweeted,
    - `Please support our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement. They are truly on the side of our Country. Stay peaceful!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://web.archive.org/web/20210106193926/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346904110969315332)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 15:13PM EST, President Trump tweeted,
    - `I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol to remain peaceful. No violence! Remember, WE are the Party of Law & Order – respect the Law and our great men and women in Blue. Thank you!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://web.archive.org/web/20210106201352/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346912780700577792)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 16:17PM EST, President Trump tweeted a video and then got deleted,
    - `I know your pain. I know you're hurt. We had an election that was stolen from us. It was a landslide election and everyone knows it, especially the other side. But you have to go home now. We have to have peace. We have to have law and order. We have to respect our great people in law and order. We don't want anybody hurt. It's a very tough period of time. There's never been a time like this where such a thing happened where they could take it away from all of us, from me, from you, from our country. This was a fraudulent election. But we can't play into the hands of these people. We have to have peace. So go home, we love you. You're very special. You've seen what happens. You see the way others are treated that are so bad and so evil. I know how you feel, but go home and go home at peace.` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://web.archive.org/web/20210106211739/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346928882595885058), [President Trump Video Statement on Capitol Protesters, C-SPAN, 2021](https://www.c-span.org/video/?507774-1/president-trump-video-statement-capitol-protesters)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 17:40PM EST, Police begin to clear the Capitol as rioters are pushed back and the interior is secured. Congressional leaders announce that they will proceed with the electoral vote tally.
	- `At 6 p.m., police began making an effort to push the protest mob away from the Capitol, and authorities said the interior of the Capitol had been secured, fully cleared of rioters.`
	  
	  `Police announced to those still outside the Capitol shortly after 6 p.m., “A curfew is now in effect. All individuals must leave the U.S. Capitol grounds or be subject to arrest.” Hundreds of people slowly walked toward the mall as police in riot gear marched forward.`
	  
	  `Scattered catcalls and curses met the police advance. “We’ll be back, traitors,” a man yelled. Chants of “U-S-A” continued to break out as the rioters dispersed.`
	  
	  `Protesters were far outnumbered by law enforcement, whom one man on a loudspeaker blamed for starting “the United States civil war.” “This is China,” said one man leaving the grounds, echoing shouts of “Tiananmen Square” that came when police cleared the grounds.` - [Trump supporters storm Capitol; DC National Guard activated; woman fatally shot, The Washington Post, 2021](https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2021/01/06/dc-protests-trump-rally-live-updates/#link-5VA73VEWZBFGFMQN6IESRASUN4)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 18:01PM EST, President Trump tweeted and then got deleted,
    - `These are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long. Go home with love & in peace. Remember this day forever!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2021](https://web.archive.org/web/20210106232133/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1346954970910707712)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 19:02PM EST, Twitter Safety tweeted,
    - `As a result of the unprecedented and ongoing violent situation in Washington, D.C., we have required the removal of three @realDonaldTrump Tweets that were posted earlier today for repeated and severe violations of our Civic Integrity policy.`
      
      `This means that the account of @realDonaldTrump will be locked for 12 hours following the removal of these Tweets. If the Tweets are not removed, the account will remain locked.`
      
      `Future violations of the Twitter Rules, including our Civic Integrity or Violent Threats policies, will result in permanent suspension of the @realDonaldTrump account.` - [@twittersafety Tweet, 2021, (Now Deleted)](https://web.archive.org/web/20210107000243/https://twitter.com/TwitterSafety/status/1346970430062485505)
- On 6 January 2021 @ 20:06PM EST, Pence reopens Congress, saying `Let’s get back to work.
    - `Vice President Pence reopened the Senate proceedings Wednesday evening by telling the rioters who stormed the Capitol that “you did not win” and encouraging lawmakers with “let’s get back to work.”`
      
      `“Today was a dark day in the history of the United States Capitol,” Pence said, delivering a rare speech from the Senate dais, where vice presidents often preside over the body but rarely, if ever, deliver remarks. He praised the resumption of proceedings, promising that “the world will again witness the resilience and strength of our democracy.”`
      
      `Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) repeated a similar sentiment, promising that lawmakers “will not be kept from this chamber by thugs, mobs or threats,” and that Congress has “faced down much greater threats than the unhinged crowd we saw today.”`
      
      `“We’ve never been deterred before, and we’ll not be deterred today,” McConnell said. “Now we’re going to finish what we started. … We will certify the winner of the 2020 presidential election.”` - [Pence declares Biden winner of the presidential election after Congress finally counts electoral votes, The Washington Post, 2021](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/01/06/congress-electoral-college-vote-live-updates/#link-YQJYMJQJTNAQLOKSPRIX4ODV5M)
- On 7 January 2021 @ 03:41AM EST, After both the House and Senate reject challenges to Biden's wins in Arizona and Pennsylvania, Pence officially affirms the election results, declaring Biden the president-elect.
	- `Vice President Pence officially affirmed the election results of President-elect Joe Biden’s win early Thursday, concluding a historic and sobering moment in time marred by pro-Trump rioters who attacked the Capitol in what amounted to an attempted coup.`
	  
	  `At 3:32 a.m., Pence cited the results for Biden’s victory in Vermont, which pushed the Democrat past the 270 electoral votes for Congress to confirm him as the next president nearly 15 hours after the joint session began.`
	  
	  `“Are there any objections to counting the certificate of the state of Vermont?” Pence asked. There was only silence.`
	  
	  `The moment, which was delayed by Republicans objecting to the Pennsylvania electoral vote, was met with a rousing ovation from Democrats exhausted at the end of a marathon, dangerous process that dragged on from Wednesday afternoon to Thursday morning and shook the nation.`
	  
	  `“The announcement of the state of the vote by the president of the Senate shall be deemed a sufficient declaration as persons elected president and vice president of the United States,” Pence said at 3:41 a.m.` - [Pence declares Biden winner of the presidential election after Congress finally counts electoral votes, The Washington Post, 2021](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/01/06/congress-electoral-college-vote-live-updates/#link-BSNDBVLWEVGJFCQJL4K4SXYX2E)
- On 7 January 2021, President Trump announced through his social media director that the @realdonaldtrump Twitter account was locked.
    - `“Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January 20th,” Trump said in a statement posted to Twitter by his social media director. Trump’s account had been locked by the company for posting messages that appeared to justify the assault on the seat of the nation’s democracy. Trump added, “While this represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history, it’s only the beginning of our fight to Make America Great Again!”` - [After excusing violence, Trump acknowledges Biden transition, AP News, 2021](https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump-orderly-transition-f03215c31a400f815a8f62960a430063)
- On 8 January 2021, Twitter then permanently suspended Trump’s Twitter account @realdonaldtrump as he was in violation of the Glorification of Violence Policy.
    - `"After close review of recent Tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around them — specifically how they are being received and interpreted on and off Twitter — we have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence.`
      
      `In the context of horrific events this week, we made it clear on Wednesday that additional violations of the Twitter Rules would potentially result in this very course of action. Our public interest framework exists to enable the public to hear from elected officials and world leaders directly. It is built on a principle that the people have a right to hold power to account in the open.`
      
      `However, we made it clear going back years that these accounts are not above our rules entirely and cannot use Twitter to incite violence, among other things. We will continue to be transparent around our policies and their enforcement.` - [Permanent suspension of @realDonaldTrump, Twitter Blog, 2021](https://blog.x.com/en_us/topics/company/2020/suspension)
	- `Due to the ongoing tensions in the United States, and an uptick in the global conversation in regards to the people who violently stormed the Capitol on January 6, 2021, these two Tweets must be read in the context of broader events in the country and the ways in which the President’s statements can be mobilized by different audiences, including to incite violence, as well as in the context of the pattern of behavior from this account in recent weeks. After assessing the language in these Tweets against our Glorification of Violence policy, we have determined that these Tweets are in violation of the Glorification of Violence Policy and the user @realDonaldTrump should be immediately permanently suspended from the service.` - [Permanent suspension of @realDonaldTrump, Twitter Blog, 2021](https://blog.x.com/en_us/topics/company/2020/suspension)
# Ray Epps Conspiracy of Being a Federal Agent
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Epps_(military_veteran))
- [link](https://revolver.news/2021/10/meet-ray-epps-the-fed-protected-provocateur-who-appears-to-have-led-the-very-first-1-6-attack-on-the-u-s-capitol/) - Original Conspiracy article
# 2nd Impeachment
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_impeachment_of_Donald_Trump)
- On January 13 2021, Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives for the second time adopting one Article of Impeachment being `Incitement of Insurrection` as a result of actions taken by Trump.
    - Impeachment Resolution - [link](https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/20447672/article-of-impeachment-against-trump.pdf)
# Defamation Cases Against Pro-Trump People & Organisations
## Dominion Voting Systems v. Fox News Network Defamation Lawsuit
- [link](https://www.dominionvoting.com/legal-updates-learn-how-we-are-defending-dominion/)
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_Voting_Systems_v._Fox_News_Network)
- [link](https://www.justsecurity.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Dominion-Complaint-Fox.pdf) - Civil Complaint
- [link](https://d.newsweek.com/en/file/465949/dominion-slide-deck.pdf) - Dominion Slide Deck
## Dominion Voting Systems v. Newsmax Defamation Lawsuit
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_Voting_Systems_v._Fox_News_Network)
## Dominion Voting Systems v. One America News Defamation Lawsuit
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_Voting_Systems_v._Fox_News_Network)
## Dominion Voting Systems v. Rudy Giuliani Defamation Lawsuit
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_Voting_Systems_v._Fox_News_Network)
## Dominion Voting Systems v. Sidney Powell Defamation Lawsuit
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_Voting_Systems_v._Fox_News_Network)
- [link](https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.dcd.225699/gov.uscourts.dcd.225699.1.0_17.pdf) - Civil Complaint
- [link](https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/29090821/us-dominion-inc-v-powell/) - Docket
## Dominion Voting Systems v. Mike Lindell Defamation Lawsuit
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_Voting_Systems_v._Fox_News_Network)
## Dominion Voting Systems v. Patrick Byrne Defamation Lawsuit
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_Voting_Systems_v._Fox_News_Network)
## Smartmatic USA Corp v. Fox News Network, Giuliani & Powell Defamation Lawsuit
- [link](https://www.smartmatic.com/lawsuit-updates-fact-checks/)
## Ruby Freeman and Wandrea’ Moss V. Rudolph W. Giuliani Defamation Lawsuit
- 
# January 6 Committee
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/January_6_commission)
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_hearings_of_the_United_States_House_Select_Committee_on_the_January_6_Attack)
- [link](https://archive.ph/a3VUm)
- [link](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-J6-TRANSCRIPT-CTRL0000923618/pdf/GPO-J6-TRANSCRIPT-CTRL0000923618.pdf) - Cheesebro Deposition
- [link](https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/documents/Report_FinalReport_Jan6SelectCommittee.pdf) - Final Report
- On May 19th, 2021, the House voted to form an independent bicameral commission to investigate the Jan 6th insurrection.
    - Vote passed 252-175 with 35 Republicans joining in favor.
- Senate Republicans blocked the bicameral commission, leading to House Speaker Pelosi to appoint a select committee using only House members.
- On June 30th, 2021, House Resolution 503 "Establishing the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol" passed the House 222-190. All Democrats and only two Republicans, Kinzinger and Cheney, voted in favor.
- On July 1st, Pelosi appoints eight members, with Cheney being the sole Republican.
- On July 19th, McCarthy suggests Jim Banks, Jim Jordan, Rodney Davis, Kelly Armstrong and Troy Nehls.
    - Banks, Jordan and Nehls voted to overturn the EC results in Arizona and Pennsylvania.
    - Banks and Jordan signed onto the Supreme Court case _Texas v. Pennsylvania_ to invalidate the ballots of voters in four states.
- On July 21st, Pelosi announced that she would reject Jordan and Banks, but would accept the other three recommendations.
    - McCarthy said it was all or nothing, costing Republicans almost all of their representation on the January 6th Select Committee.
- On July 25th, Pelosi announced her appointment of Adam Kinzinger to the committee.
    - Notably, Kinzinger was one of only ten House Republicans to vote for Trump's second impeachment.
- Members
    - BENNIE G. THOMPSON (D) Mississippi, Chairman
    - LIZ CHENEY (R) Wyoming, Vice Chair
    - ZOE LOFGREN (D) California
    - ADAM B. SCHIFF (D) California
    - PETE AGUILAR (D) California
    - STEPHANIE N. MURPHY (D) Florida
    - JAMIE RASKIN (D) Maryland
    - ELAINE G. LURIA (D) Virginia
    - ADAM KINZINGER (R) Illinois
- Majority of the witnesses involved in the J6 Select Committee Report were Republicans.
    - Two of President Trump’s former Attorneys General, his former White House Counsel, numerous members of his White House staff, and the highest-ranking members of his 2020 election campaign, including his campaign manager and his campaign general counsel.
- Cheney was [ousted from the Republican leadership](https://www.npr.org/2021/05/12/995072539/gop-poised-to-oust-cheney-from-leadership-over-her-criticism-of-trump) from the third highest position in the House for her intense criticisms of Donald Trump's claims about election rigging.
    - Cheney had one of the most conservative voting records in Congress, and [voted in line with Trump's agenda](https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/congress-trump-score/liz-cheney/) 92.9% of the time.
- Representatives Liz Cheney (R-WY) and Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) were censured by the Republican party for participating in the J6 House Select Committee. Cheney would go on to get crushed in her election, Kinzinger had already announced he would not be running again.
	- ` ` - [Liz Cheney loses House Republican leadership post over feud with Trump, CNN, 2021](https://www.cnn.com/2021/05/12/politics/liz-cheney-gop-conference-vote/index.html)
# OIG Analysis on Secret Service Preparation for January 6
- [link](https://www.oig.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/assets/2024-08/OIG-24-42-Aug24-Redacted.pdf)
# Trump Claiming Fraud In Previous Elections
- On 6 November 2012, Trump tweeted that the 2012 Election had instances of vote switching at machines.
    - `More reports of voting machines switching Romney votes to Obama. Pay close attention to the machines, don't let your vote be stolen` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2012](https://web.archive.org/web/20170715102520/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/265905510115590144)
- On 3 February 2016, Trump tweeted that the 2016 Republican Iowa Caucuses was stolen by Ted Cruz.
    - `Ted Cruz didn't win Iowa, he stole it. That is why all of the polls were so wrong and why he got far more votes than anticipated. Bad!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2016](https://web.archive.org/web/20161108232635/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/694879900256354304?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)
- On 18 May 2016, Trump tweeted that the Democratic National Committee had rigged the vote against Bernie Sanders.
    - `Bernie Sanders is being treated very badly by the Democrats - the system is rigged against him. Many of his disenfranchised fans are for me!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2016](https://web.archive.org/web/20170321194421/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/732893573365010432)
- On 27 November 2016, Trump tweeted that he won the popular vote when removing illegal votes in the 2016 Election.
    - `In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2016](https://web.archive.org/web/20161202000744/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/802972944532209664)
- On 11 May 2017, Trump signed an executive order to establish a voter fraud commission to conduct an investigation into voter fraud.
    - `By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to promote fair and honest Federal elections, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Establishment. The Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity (Commission) is hereby established.` - [Executive Order 13799, Federal Register, 2017](https://public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2017-10003.pdf?1494852387)
- On 3 January 2018, the Trump administration disbanded the commission.
    - `Executive Order 13799 of May 11, 2017 (Establishment of Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity), is hereby revoked, and the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity is accordingly terminated.` - [Executive Order on the Termination of Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, The White House, 2018](https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-termination-presidential-advisory-commission-election-integrity/)
- On 4 January 2018, Trump tweeted that he blamed states for not handing over requested voter information to the commission.
    - `Many mostly Democrat States refused to hand over data from the 2016 Election to the Commission On Voter Fraud. They fought hard that the Commission not see their records or methods because they know that many people are voting illegally. System is rigged, must go to Voter I.D.` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2018](https://x.com/realDonaldTrump/status/948872192284155904)
- On 9 November 2018, Trump tweeted that there was electoral corruption in Arizona during the 2018 Midterm Elections.
    - `Just out — in Arizona, SIGNATURES DON’T MATCH. Electoral corruption - Call for a new Election? We must protect our Democracy!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2018](https://web.archive.org/web/20181122063921/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1060993836984324096?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)
- On 18 February 2020, Trump tweeted that the Democratic National Committee had rigged the vote against Bernie Sanders again.
    - `The Crooked DNC is working overtime to take the Democrat Nomination away from Bernie, AGAIN! Watch what happens to the Super Delegates in Round Two. A Rigged Convention!` - [@realdonaldtrump Tweet, 2020](https://web.archive.org/web/20200218140116/https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1229767823595012096)
# Academic Research on Voter Fraud With Vote-by-Mail
- A 2020 Paper found that,
    - `In our data, we confirm important conventional wisdom among election experts: VBM offers voters considerable convenience, increases turnout rates modestly, but has no discernible effect on party vote shares or the partisan share of the electorate.` - [Universal vote-by-mail has no impact on partisan turnout or vote share, Thompson et al., 2020](https://www.pnas.org/doi/pdf/10.1073/pnas.2007249117)
- A 2020 Paper found that,
    - `Mandatory VBM increases turnout modestly in general elections but does not substantively advantage either political party. These results are vitally important given contemporary debates at local, state, and federal levels over the merits of this mode of administering elections.` - [The participatory and partisan impacts of mandatory vote-by-mail, Barber and Holbein, 2020](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1126%2Fsciadv.abc7685)
- The Heritage Foundation documented 1,561 proven instances of voter fraud, of which 1,325 resulted in criminal convictions, 58 Civil penalties issued and 127 ordered to attend a Diversion program.
	- [Voter Fraud Map: Election Fraud Database, The Heritage Foundation](https://www.heritage.org/voterfraud)