- Crises have become less common over time and a higher proportion of countries in the world are growing at all times:
    - `The pandemic underscores the crucial value of global coordination and cooperation in public health as well as in economic policy. Cooperation across governments, and between governments, non-governmental organizations, and the private sector is necessary to help build domestic capacity to detect and respond to health crises, as well as develop and disseminate global public goods such as vaccines. Global coordination is vital for transferring health supplies and expertise where they are most needed in the near term, and to develop a coordinated exit strategy from restrictions on the free movement of people in the medium term. Moreover, the unprecedented common economic shock adds to the growing evidence of the gains from coordinating monetary and fiscal actions across countries (Bodenstein, Corsetti, and Guerrieri 2020; Triggs 2018). In late March, the G7 pledged to “do whatever is necessary to restore confidence and economic growth and to protect jobs, businesses, and the resilience of the financial system” (U.S. Department of the Treasury 2020).` - [Global Economic Prospects, 2020](https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/33748/211553-Ch01.pdf?sequence=18&isAllowed=y)
- A 2001 Paper found that:
    - Output volatility has enormously fallen in the US and other high-income countries (G7) (minus Japan). They also found that higher inflation and higher inflation volatility both predict higher output volatility -- but the time trend predicts lower volatility `We have documented the long and large decline in output volatility over the last half-century.` - [The Long and Large Decline in U.S. Output Volatility, Blanchard and Simon, 2001](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1353/eca.2001.0013)
- A 2018 Paper found that there was no evidence for the post-2008 era having seen increased volatility.
    - `In this paper, we focused on break detection in mean and in variance on output growth for a set of advanced countries, based on statistical test procedures. It turns out that the Great Recession period is characterized by large breaks in mean of transitory nature, while dates of breaks in variance are consistent with the Great Moderation period in the eighties. This leads us to conclude that there is no evidence favoring an end of the low output volatility period, but rather that the Great Recession has a dramatically short-lived effect on the output growth but not on its volatility.` - [Does The Great Recession Imply The End Of The Great Moderation? International Evidence, Charles et al., 2018](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1111/ecin.12551)
- Good monetary policy is the claim to low volatility of capital in the US, namely The Great Moderation.
    - `The Great Moderation is the name given to the period of decreased macroeconomic volatility experienced in the United States from the mid-1980s to the financial crisis in 2007.` `The Great Moderation is seen as a part of the monetary policy framework laid by Paul Volcker and continued by Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke during their time as Federal Reserve chairs.` - [link](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/g/great-moderation.asp#:~:text=The%20Great%20Moderation%20is%20the,States%20starting%20in%20the%201980s.&text=The%20Great%20Moderation%20can%20be,inflation%20and%20positive%20economic%20growth.)
- The effect of this monetary policy showed a tighter and more stable upwards change to Real GDP over time. [link](https://fredblog.stlouisfed.org/2017/10/moderately-well-understood/)
- Read more here. [link](https://www.federalreservehistory.org/essays/great-moderation)