- The Green new Deal is a proposed package of United States legislation that aims to address climate change and economic inequality.
- Trump in 2019 speaking to employees of Sempra Energy, he said `That’s a hoax...Under that deal, everybody in this room gets fired.` [link](https://boingboing.net/2019/05/14/trump-says-green-new-deal-is.html) Trump has tweeted ` I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal. It would be great for the so-called "Carbon Footprint" to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military – even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!` [link](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1094375749279248385)
- The Green New Deal is no hoax. Instead, the resolution is one of the few calls to climate action that rises to the scale of the crisis. [link](https://www.nrdc.org/experts/aliya-haq/green-new-deal-rises-scale-climate-challenge) Despite Trump’s scare tactics, it makes no mention of outlawing hamburgers or flying—and experts agree it wouldn’t cause mass layoffs. `How Many Jobs Will The Green New Deal Kill And Create? Every economist I talked to agreed: The Green New Deal would be a job creator. Most said it's impossible to know exactly how many jobs it will add to the economy, but studies generally show that government investments in green technology boost employment possibilities.` [link](https://psmag.com/economics/will-the-green-new-deal-work-heres-what-the-research-says)
- The University of Massachusetts­–Amherst calculated what would be needed to cut the U.S.'s carbon emissions by 40 percent in 20 years. The study found that the American government and private companies would have to invest a collective $200 billion a year, the government should collect about $200 billion a year in carbon taxes, about 1.5 million jobs would be destroyed, and 4.2 million new jobs would be created. [link](https://www.peri.umass.edu/publication/item/585-green-growth-a-u-s-program-for-controlling-climate-change-and-expanding-job-opportunities)
- Carolyn Heinrich, a public policy professor at Vanderbilt University. Often, with worker retraining, she says, "what we're not able to do is get to them where they were before." People might have to start over in a new industry, at a lower level than they're used to. Or, if a disappeared industry affects their entire region, they may have to move (but then, how to sell a house in a region where jobs have been gutted?). "So it looks like a negative impact, right?" Heinrich says. "Compared to people who just go out and start working." [link](https://psmag.com/economics/will-the-green-new-deal-work-heres-what-the-research-says) [link](https://peabody.vanderbilt.edu/bio/carolyn-heinrich)
- Biden supports the Green New deal. Biden’s plan will: `Ensure the U.S. achieves a 100% clean energy economy and reaches net-zero emissions no later than 2050. On day one, Biden will sign a series of new executive orders with unprecedented reach that go well beyond the Obama-Biden Administration platform and put us on the right track. And, he will demand that Congress enacts legislation in the first year of his presidency that: 1) establishes an enforcement mechanism that includes milestone targets no later than the end of his first term in 2025, 2) makes a historic investment in clean energy and climate research and innovation, 3) incentivizes the rapid deployment of clean energy innovations across the economy, especially in communities most impacted by climate change.` [link](https://joebiden.com/climate/)
- `Build a stronger, more resilient nation. On day one, Biden will make smart infrastructure investments to rebuild the nation and to ensure that our buildings, water, transportation, and energy infrastructure can withstand the impacts of climate change. Every dollar spent toward rebuilding our roads, bridges, buildings, the electric grid, and our water infrastructure will be used to prevent, reduce, and withstand a changing climate. As President, Biden will use the convening power of government to boost climate resilience efforts by developing regional climate resilience plans, in partnership with local universities and national labs, for local access to the most relevant science, data, information, tools, and training.` [link](https://joebiden.com/climate/)
- `Rally the rest of the world to meet the threat of climate change. Climate change is a global challenge that requires decisive action from every country around the world. Joe Biden knows how to stand with America’s allies, stand up to adversaries, and level with any world leader about what must be done. He will not only recommit the United States to the Paris Agreement on climate change – he will go much further than that. He will lead an effort to get every major country to ramp up the ambition of their domestic climate targets. He will make sure those commitments are transparent and enforceable, and stop countries from cheating by using America’s economic leverage and power of example. He will fully integrate climate change into our foreign policy and national security strategies, as well as our approach to trade.` [link](https://joebiden.com/climate/)