- The Labor Theory of Value claims that Goods + Labor Inputs + Surplus Value = Value of the Commodity
- The Labor Theory of Value is defined by four different elements:
    - Abstract Labour: economically valuable work time
    - Concrete Labour: particular activity that has a specific useful effect.
    - Use Value: a commodities capacity to satisfy a human need.
    - Exchange Value: determines ratio which a commodity is exchangeable with every other commodity.
- Marx asserts that LTV only applies to the averages of various goods, not individual goods making this a self-admitted incomplete theory of value:
    - `But without the leave, and behind the back, of our weaver, the old-fashioned mode of weaving undergoes a change. The labour-time that yesterday was without doubt socially necessary to the production of a yard of linen, ceases to be so to-day, a fact which the owner of the money is only too eager to prove from the prices quoted by our friend s competitors. Unluckily for him, weavers are not few and far between. Lastly, suppose that every piece of linen in the market contains no more labour-time than is socially necessary. In spite of this, all these pieces taken as a whole, may have had superfluous labour-time spent upon them. If the market cannot stomach the whole quantity at the normal price of 2 shillings a yard, this proves that too great a portion of the total labour of the community has been expended in the form of weaving. The effect is the same as if each individual weaver had expended more labour-time upon his particular product than is socially necessary. Here we may say, with the German proverb: caught together, hung together. All the linen in the market counts but as one article of commerce, of which each piece is only an aliquot part. And as a matter of fact, the value also of each single yard is but the materialised form of the same definite and socially fixed quantity of homogeneous human labour.` - [Capital: a critique of political economy. Vol. 1, Marx, 1867](https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1867-c1/ch03.htm)
- In a journal called `Marxian Economics: A Reappraisal Essays On Volume III Of Capital - Volume 2: Profits, Prices And Dynamics`, In a section called `The Empirical Strength of the Labour Theory of Value`, Anwar Shaikh argues that the theory holds as proved by showing that total labor total times vs price of production correlates to each other. [Marxian Economics: A Reappraisal: Volume 2: Essays On Volume Iii Of Capital, Profits, Prices And Dynamics, Bellofiore, 1998](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzaceaccp5bzqpxfaxysdgcgzbgeau6k75iwtvq64qczstpu74i7lobsc?filename=%5B%5D+Riccardo+Bellofiore+%28eds.%29+-+Marxian+Economics%3A+A+Reappraisal%3A+Volume+2%3A+Essays+on+Volume+III+of+Capital+Profit%2C+Prices+and+Dynamics+%281998%2C+Palgrave+Macmillan%29+%5B10.1007%2F978-1-349-26121-5%5D.pdf)
- Andrew Kliman argues that the problem with Shaikh's claim is that because `price of production` is represented through the input-output of an entire sector of an economy, it misses the value of a single product from said sector and doesn't factor the size of a given sector. So Kiman replicates the data:
    - `The measures of distance indicate that prices differed from adjusted values by an average of about +/-8% to +/-13%. Such results, and even somewhat weaker ones, are typically taken as providing strong confirmation that values are close to market prices. Yet what can we infer from this closeness and what can we not validly infer?` - [The law of value and laws of statistics: sectoral values and prices in the US economy, 1977–97](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/cje/26.3.299)
- Kliman then adjusts the price and value of each sector by its aggregate labour and non-labour costs.
    - `I have chosen to deflate the sectoral aggregate prices and values by aggregate labour and non labour costs.` - [The law of value and laws of statistics: sectoral values and prices in the US economy, 1977–97](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/cje/26.3.299)
- Kliman then finds after adjustment, no correlation between labor input and value occurs
    - `Once the effects of industry size are removed, it is not the case that prices are high in high-value sectors and low in low-value sectors. Rather, size-adjusted prices and values are close only in the sense that almost all sectors prices are close to almost all sectors values. I thus find that, on average, a sector s value is no better a predictor of its price than is a random variable with the same probability distribution as the values.` - [The law of value and laws of statistics: sectoral values and prices in the US economy, 1977–97](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/cje/26.3.299)
- In their book `Capital is Power`, Jonathan Nitzan & Shimshon Bichler argue that Labor Theory of Value researchers assume wages equal the value of labor power (among other assumptions), which results in circular reasoning,
    - `The most important of these assumptions are that the value of labour power is proportionate to the actual wage rate, that the ratio of variable capital to surplus value is given by the price ratio of wages to profit, and occasionally also that the value of the depreciated constant capital is equal to a fraction of the capital’s money price. In other words, the researcher assumes precisely what the labour theory of value is supposed to demonstrate.` - [Capital as power: a study of order and creorder, Nitzan and Bichler, 2009](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacedvvf6kzqa35zvfvyix6otsy2yy53llgmxiukm5lzsqmpkfouzvbc?filename=Jonathan%20Nitzan%2C%20Shimshon%20Bichler%20-%20Capital%20as%20Power_%20A%20Study%20of%20Order%20and%20Creorder%20%28Ripe%20Series%20in%20Global%20Political%20Economy%29%20%282009%29.pdf)
- Nitzan And Bichler then try to present an example demonstrating that, even when price and value are totally uncorrelated, aggregate price and value will be strongly correlated, demonstrating that this correlation is spurious.
    - `the average error you get when predicting United States prices using the labour theory of value is only about 9%. This has proven to be the case across many industries and several decades.` - [link](http://bnarchives.yorku.ca/308/2/20101200_cockshott_nitzan_bichler_testing_the_ltv_exchange_web.htm)