- In 2012, A test of a RCT was conducted in the Philippines, in which families would be given **conditional** grants of flat, untaxed payment depending on their financial and familial situation. The program primarily aimed to test RCT’s ability to break generational poverty and benefit children's future. Parents with children ranging age 0-14 are eligible for the health grants, receiving a total of ₱500 monthly, as long as conditions as to how well families follow health guidelines are met. For the education grants, the only conditions to apply for the benefit of ₱300 per child monthly are to have a child 6-14 in a low-income area, and to make sure the child attends at least 85% of school days.
- Attendance in preschool or daycare was 10.3% higher than the baseline of 65% for the low-income families without the RCT. Similarly, in children aged 6-11, enrolment in elementary school rose 4.5% higher than the baseline 93% in other low income households. However, for children 15-17, RCT had a **slight negative** effect on enrolment, but the RCT **did not** apply to the age group, so a positive effect on education **was not expected for those 15-17.** Similarly to the benefits in enrolment in most age groups, attendance in school **increased** in all age groups.
- Access to prenatal and postnatal care greatly increased for women affected by the RCT health benefits. (Prenatal by 10.5% and postnatal by 10%). It was also found that pregnant recipients of RCT made visits to prenatal facilities 1.6x more than the control. RCT also reduced severe stunting in affected children 6-36 months old by 10.1% from the 24% baseline. Alcohol consumption **reduced** by 39% in households affected by RCT.
- Poor households receiving RCT increased spending on health services by 34%, increased spending on education by 38%, and increased spending on protein-rich foods by 38%. There was a reduction in poverty three years after the program’s initiation by 2.7%. This impact is small, but would likely increase as more time under the program passes for affected families. It was found there was **no significant change** in motivation to work. [link](https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/13244/755330REVISED000Revised0June0402014.pdf)
- This source lists three pro-RCT points, said points being:
    - RCTs have positive effects on children, primarily increased weight for age and weight for height, 15% decreased rates of low birth-weight, and increased school attendance.
    
    - Recipients of RCT use the income well, causing it to create long term benefit. Men’s income increased by 64-96% five years after receiving a transfer.
    
    - Those receiving transfers don’t expend their income on unneeded commodities such as alcohol. There is also no significant impact on work-hours. [link](https://www.givedirectly.org/research-on-cash-transfers/)
- A World Bank blog post from 2014 makes the claim that recipients of RCT and UBI **do not** use their given income on goods such as alcohol. Examples are as follows:
    - When examining 44 estimates of alcohol consumption across 19 studies and 13 interventions, the majority of studies report results of reduced alcohol consumption (82%).
    
    - There is little to no incentive for recipients to lie. The surveyors intentionally do not add items such as alcohol in separate lists, and treat them with the same significance as other household items. It’s also been shown that those with a non-zero baseline for alcohol don’t suddenly report spending nothing on alcohol, instead, they still tend to report a decreased, but not non-zero spending on alcohol. This trend implies that recipients do not try to “game the system,” and rather remain honest about their expenditures. [link](https://blogs.worldbank.org/impactevaluations/do-poor-waste-transfers-booze-and-cigarettes-no)