## Supply Side Economics
- Supply-side economics is a macroeconomic theory that postulates economic growth can be most effectively fostered by lowering taxes, decreasing regulation, and allowing free trade. According to the theory, consumers will benefit from greater supplies of goods and services at lower prices, and employment will increase.
- A 2022 paper found that:
    - `major tax cuts lead to a significant increase in inequality and that this effect becomes stronger with time. Three years after the major tax cut, the top 1% income share increases by 0.6 percentage points. Over 5 years, the top 1% share of pre-tax national income increases by more than 0.7 percentage points. This effect is highly statistically significant, with P < 0.0001. Furthermore, the top panel of Figure 3 also shows a placebo test by estimating the effect of tax cuts in the years before the reform. These placebo models test whether trajectories of inequality are significantly different in countries with and without a major tax cut for the rich prior to the reform actually taking place. The point estimates of the placebo tests are statistically indistinguishable from zero. Thus, we find no evidence that countries that cut taxes for the rich experience a stronger (or weaker) growth in inequality prior to tax reforms. In other words, the findings show strong support for the parallel trends assumption that underlies the difference-in-differences estimator.` - [The economic consequences of major tax cuts for the rich, Hope and Limberg, 2022](https://kclpure.kcl.ac.uk/portal/files/166207939/Hope_Limberg_SER_2022.pdf)