- A 2003 paper found that:
    - `Unions raise wages of unionized workers by roughly 20% and raise compensation, including both wages and benefits, by about 28%, Unions reduce wage inequality because they raise wages more for low- and middle-wage workers than for higher-wage workers, more for blue-collar than for white-collar workers, and more for workers who do not have a college degree, Strong unions set a pay standard that nonunion employers follow. For example, a high school graduate whose workplace is not unionized but whose industry is 25% unionized is paid 5% more than similar workers in less unionized industries. The impact of unions on total nonunion wages is almost as large as the impact on total union wages. The most sweeping advantage for unionized workers is in fringe benefits. Unionized workers are more likely than their nonunionized counterparts to receive paid leave, are approximately 18% to 28% more likely to have employer-provided health insurance, and are 23% to 54% more likely to be in employer-provided pension plans. Unionized workers receive more generous health benefits than nonunionized workers. They also pay 18% lower health care deductibles and a smaller share of the costs for family coverage. In retirement, unionized workers are 24% more likely to be covered by health insurance paid for by their employer. • Unionized workers receive better pension plans. Not only are they more likely to have a guaranteed benefit in retirement, their employers contribute 28% more toward pensions. • Unionized workers receive 26% more vacation time and 14% more total paid leave (vacations and holidays).` - [How unions help all workers, Mishel and Walters, 2003](https://files.epi.org/page/-/old/briefingpapers/143/bp143.pdf)
- A 2011 report found that:
    - `The social democratic countries (Figure 6) have consistently high levels of union coverage (dashed line) and union membership (solid line). Coverage rates were flat or even rising in all four countries. Membership rates, which are nearly as high as coverage rates, changed little or fell slightly.` `The liberal market economies (Figure 8) generally have relatively low unionization rates and these rates have declined in every one of these countries.` - [Politics Matter. Changes in Unionization Rates in Rich Countries, 1960-2010, Schmitt and Mitukiewicz, 2011](https://cepr.net/documents/publications/unions-oecd-2011-11.pdf)
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `Much of the connection between unions and the distribution of economic resources occurs through political channels. There is extensive evidence, both macro and micro, linking union membership to increased political knowledge, interest, and turnout as well as other forms of participation` - [Labor Unions, Political Representation, and Economic Inequality, Ahlquist, 2017](https://www.annualreviews.org/docserver/fulltext/polisci/20/1/annurev-polisci-051215-023225.pdf?expires=1715723790&id=id&accname=guest&checksum=0616FE1045E4A531C023166CBF7858B7)
- A 2019 paper found that:
    - `We find a robust negative correlation between exposure to unionization and changes in local inequality.` - [Unions and the Great Compression of wage inequality in the US at mid-century: evidence from local labour markets, Collins and Niemesh, 2019](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1111/ehr.12744)
- A 2020 paper found that:
    - `We find that increasing union density leads to improved firm level productivity in Norway. The negative relationship between union density and productivity apparent in OLS estimates disappears and becomes weakly positive but non-significant once we control for firm fixed effects. However, it becomes statistically significant and strongly positive when we use exogenous variation in the average tax subsidy on union membership fees of the workers in the firm to instrument for union density.` - [Union Density Effects on Productivity and Wages, Barth et al., 2020](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/ej/ueaa048)
- A 2021 paper found that:
    - `While previous research finds little evidence that trade unions achieve desirable policy outcomes on issues related to union institutions and activities (Dixon 2010; Masters and Delaney 2005), my findings suggest that organized labor can influence social policy issues that directly benefit nonmembers. A key finding is that states with higher unionization rates—both overall and in the public sector—are faster to adopt leave policies.` - [When Do Unions Matter to Social Policy? Organized Labor and Leave Legislation in US States, Engeman, 2021](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/sf/soaa074)