- In 1932 to 1933, the Ukrainian SSR, and now Ukraine, experienced a famine. This famine was man-made, approximately 3.9 million from this famine.
- The overwhelming majority of dead were Ukrainians. but Kazakhs were also amongst those who died during the [[1930-33 Asharshylyk Famine]]. 
- The consequences are evident in demographic statistics: between 1926 and 1939, the Ukrainian population increased by only 6.6%, whereas Russia and Belarus grew by 16.9% and 11.7%, respectively. 
	- [USSR Census of 1939, University of Toronto Data Library Service](https://web.archive.org/web/20110706211443/http://datalib.chass.utoronto.ca/codebooks/utm/ussr_1939.htm) 
	- [All-Union Population Census of 1939, Demoscope Weekly](https://web.archive.org/web/20120119190805/http://demoscope.ru/weekly/ssp/sng_nac_39.php?reg=2)
- Collectivization and grain production quotas were imposed on farmers by Stalin's first Five Year Plan, these quotas endured into the famine, failure to meet said quotas was punished by being blocked from participation in the general economy and seizure of other known green foods as tax or outright execution.
    - `The mass starvation of 1933 was the result of Stalin’s first Five-Year Plan, implemented between 1928 and 1932. In those years, Stalin had taken control of the heights of the communist party, forced through a policy of industrialization and collectivization, and emerged as the frightful father of a beaten population. He had transformed the market into the plan, farmers into slaves, and the wastes of Siberia and Kazakhstan into a chain of concentration camps. His policies had killed tens of thousands by execution, hundreds of thousands by exhaustion, and put millions at risk of starvation. He was still rightly concerned about opposition within the communist party, but was possessed of immense political gifts, assisted by willing satraps, and atop a bureaucracy that claimed to see and make the future. That future was communism: which required heavy industry, which in turn required collectivized agriculture, which in turn required control of the largest social group in the Soviet Union, the peasantry.` - Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin, Timothy Snyder, 2010
- The USSR knew of the famine and its scope but continued to export grain anyway.
    - `But grain was still the most lucrative export, especially since the timber trade had run into trouble; reports (which were accurate) that convict labour produced Soviet timber had led to calls for boycotts in a number of Western countries. The level of grain exports duly rose throughout the 1920s` - Red Famine: Stalin’s War on Ukraine, Anne Applebaum, 2017
    - `More than half of the (nonspoiled) harvest was removed from Soviet Ukraine in 1931. Many collective farms met their requisition targets only by handing over their seed grain. Stalin ordered on 5 December that collective farms that had not yet fulfilled their annual requirements must surrender their seed grain. Stalin perhaps believed that peasants were hiding food, and thought that the threat of taking the seed grain would motivate them to hand over what they had. But by this time many of them truly had nothing. By the end of 1931, many peasants were already going hungry. With no land of their own and with little ability to resist requisitions, they simply had no way to ensure that a sufficient number of calories reached their households. Then in early 1932 they had no seed grain with which to plant the fall crop. The Ukrainian party leadership asked for seed grain in March 1932, but by that time the planting was already delayed, meaning that the harvest that fall would be poor.` - Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin, Timothy Snyder, 2010
- The USSR did not release food reserves to help the starved after begging the USSR leadership locally and nationally.
    - `In early 1932 people asked for help. Ukrainian communists requested that their superiors in the Ukrainian party ask Stalin to call in the Red Cross. Members of collective farms tried writing letters to state and party authorities. One of these, after several paragraphs of formal administrative prose, closed with the plaintive “Give us bread! Give us bread! Give us bread!” Ukrainian party members bypassed Kosior and wrote directly to Stalin, taking an angry tone: “How can we construct the socialist economy when we are all doomed to death by hunger?”` - Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin, Timothy Snyder, 2010
- The USSR knew of the famine but still were forbidding emigration from Ukraine and emigration within Ukraine from rural areas to urban areas.
    - `Desertion of factories combined with peasants' flight from kolkhozy so that millions of people moved around the country seeking better conditions. In response the regime revived the tsarist institution of internal passports at the end of 1932.
      
      `These conditions worsenedin the first half of 1933. A study of the Menshevik press argues that during this period "the attention of the population in [Moscow]. . . was completely absorbed by the famine," and, therefore, it must have been "the overriding concerning all other areas where the famine was much more acute." By May townspeople had not seen "edible bread" for six months and the cities overflowed with famished children` - [The 1932 Harvest and the Famine of 1933, Mark B. Tauger, 1991](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.2307/2500600)
- The USSR actively suppressed information about the famine, in contrast with the 1921 famine, which made calculating the true loss of Ukranian life in regional areas.
    - `At present, they are kept at archival establishments subordinated to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, and remain virtually an untouched field for researchers of the Famine-Genocide. In spite of the fact that the birth and death records (metrychni knyhy) were for the most part destroyed by order of the GPU, and that information about the causes and scale of death has been falsified, some registry books for 1932-1933 have, nevertheless, survived. It is impossible to calculate the total figure of Ukraine's population loss due to the Famine, but it is possible to analyze data in a regional breakdown (on the village and district levels). Both types of these resource collections remain practically unknown to researchers and publishers.` - [The Publication of Sources on the History of the 1932–1933 Famine-Genocide: History, Current State, and Prospects, Hennadii Boriak, 2001](http://history.org.ua/LiberUA/Book/USF/3.pdf)
    - `Owing to the extremely limited base of photo sources, photographs from a different historical period and other regions are occasionally published as documentary evidence of the Famine-Genocide. As a rule, such photos come from the period of the first Soviet famine in 1921-1922 on Russian territory. Since it was convenient, at the time, for the Bolsheviks to present the famine—which had actually been caused by the state's policy of "war communism"—as a consequence of foreign military intervention, they willingly allowed these photo documents to be widely circulated. Due to the absence of authentic photo sources of the 1932-1933 Famine-Genocide, these same photographs have been used over and over. Even a recent publication on the Famine-Genocide by the Ukrainian Canadian Research and Documentation Center seems to include at least one photograph from Russia in 1921.` - [The Publication of Sources on the History of the 1932–1933 Famine-Genocide: History, Current State, and Prospects, Hennadii Boriak, 2001](http://history.org.ua/LiberUA/Book/USF/3.pdf)
- Evidence of widespread cannibalism was documented during the Holodomor because of the famine.
    - `Survival was a moral as well as a physical struggle. A woman doctor wrote to a friend in June 1933 that she had not yet become a cannibal, but was "not sure that I shall not be one by the time my letter reaches you." The good people died first. Those who refused to steal or to prostitute themselves died. Those who gave food to others died. Those who refused to eat corpses died. Those who refused to kill their fellow man died. Parents who resisted cannibalism died before their children did.` - Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin, Timothy Snyder, 2010
    - `In the villages smoke coming from a cottage chimney was a suspicious sign, since it tended to mean that cannibals were eating a kill or that families were roasting one of their members. Police would follow the smoke and make arrests. At least 2,505 people were sentenced for cannibalism in the years 1932 and 1933 in Ukraine, though the actual number of cases was certainly much greater.` - Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin, Timothy Snyder, 2010
- Professor of law and coiner of the term "genocide" Raphael Lemkin states that the famine was man-made and the Holodomor was a genocide. In his 1953 speech "Soviet Genocide in Ukraine", which he presented in New York City, he states that the Holodomor was the "third prong" of Soviet "Russification" of Ukraine.
    - `What I want to speak about is perhaps the classic example of Soviet genocide, its longest and broadest experiment in Russification — the destruction of the Ukrainian nation.` - [Soviet Genocide In the Ukraine, Raphael Lemkin, 1953](https://education.holodomor.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/LEMKIN-UN-SPEECH-FULL%E2%80%93Holodomor_PartIV_Friesens.pdf)
    - `The third prong of the Soviet plan was aimed at the farmers, the large mass of independent peasants who are the repository of the tradition, folklore and music, the national language and literature, the national spirit, of Ukraine.` - [Soviet Genocide In the Ukraine, Raphael Lemkin, 1953](https://education.holodomor.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/LEMKIN-UN-SPEECH-FULL%E2%80%93Holodomor_PartIV_Friesens.pdf)
    - `As a Soviet politician Kosior declared in Izvestiia on 2 December 1933, ‘Ukrainian nationalism is our chief danger’, and it was to eliminate that nationalism, to establish the horrifying uniformity of the Soviet state that the Ukrainian peasantry was sacrificed.` - [Soviet Genocide In the Ukraine, Raphael Lemkin, 1953](https://education.holodomor.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/LEMKIN-UN-SPEECH-FULL%E2%80%93Holodomor_PartIV_Friesens.pdf)
    - `The crop that year was ample to feed the people and livestock of Ukraine, though it had fallen off somewhat from the previous year, a decrease probably due in large measure to the struggle over collectivization. But a famine was necessary for the Soviet and so they got one to order, by plan, through an unusually high grain allotment to the state as taxes.` - [Soviet Genocide In the Ukraine, Raphael Lemkin, 1953](https://education.holodomor.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/LEMKIN-UN-SPEECH-FULL%E2%80%93Holodomor_PartIV_Friesens.pdf)
    - `This is not simply a case of mass murder. It is a case of genocide, of destruction, not of individuals only, but of a culture and a nation. If it were possible to do this even without suffering we would still be driven to condemn it, for the family of minds, the unity of ideas, of language and of customs that form what we call a nation that constitutes one of the most important of all our means of civilization and progress.` - [Soviet Genocide In the Ukraine, Raphael Lemkin, 1953](https://education.holodomor.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/LEMKIN-UN-SPEECH-FULL%E2%80%93Holodomor_PartIV_Friesens.pdf)
- The famine was not the result of a bad drought but because of the grain seizures.
    - `There were droughts in 1931 and in 1934 but not in 1932. In February 1932 Molotov officially acknowledged that the 1931 drought in the Volga Basin, Western Siberia, and Kazakhstan had damaged the grain crop. No such acknowledgement was made in connection with any drought that may have affected Ukraine in 1932. The closest allusion to a drought was Stalin's statement in January 1933:`
      
      `Of course, in 1932 we also had some harvest losses because of bad weather in the Kuban and the Terek reigons and also in some districts in Ukraine. But there can be no doubt that these losses do not amount to even half of the losses which occured in 1931 because of the droughtin the Northeastern districts of the USSR.`
      
      `The losses allegedly related to inclement weather did not lead to a relaxation of grain seizures in the areas Stalin mentioned.`
      
      `5) In 1931-1932, the official Soviet response to a dorught-induced grain shortage outside Ukraine was to send aid to the areas affected and to make a series of concessions to the peasantry.`
      
      `After Molotov's February 1932 acknowledgement of drought related difficulties in the Transvolga areas, at least some aid was mobilized. In the second half of March Pravda announced that after the complete fulfillment of the procurements quota for the 1931-1932 crop year in the North Caucasus Territory, "shock work methods" had been employed to obtain an additional 40,000 tp of seed pin, which had been shipped to the regions affected by the drought.` - [Investigation Of the 1932-1933 Ukraine Famine, Report To Congress Commission On the Ukraine Famine, U.S. Commission on the Ukraine Famine, 1988](https://fcpp.org/wp-content/uploads/Investigation_of_the_Ukrainian_Famine_1932-1933_report_to_Congress.pdf)
- In the Soviet Union, authorities all but banned discussion of the famine, and Ukrainian historian Stanislav Kulchytsky stated the Soviet government ordered him to falsify his findings and depict the famine as an unavoidable natural disaster, to absolve the Communist Party and uphold the legacy of Stalin.
	- `A quarter century ago, a Ukrainian historian named Stanislav Kulchytsky was told by his Soviet overlords to concoct an insidious cover-up. His orders: to depict the famine that killed millions of Ukrainians in the early 1930s as unavoidable, like a natural disaster. Absolve the Communist Party of blame. Uphold the legacy of Stalin.`
	  
	  `Professor Kulchytsky, though, would not go along.`
	  
	  `The other day, as he stood before a new memorial to the victims of the famine, he recalled his decision as one turning point in a movement lasting decades to unearth the truth about that period. And the memorial itself, shaped like a towering candle with a golden eternal flame, seemed to him in some sense a culmination of this effort.` - [A New View of a Famine That Killed Millions, The New York Times, 2009](https://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/16/world/europe/16kiev.html?_r=4&scp=1&sq=holodomor&st=cse&)
- In a United Nation address from multiple countries
    - `In the former Soviet Union millions of men, women and children fell victims to the cruel actions and policies of the totalitarian regime. The Great Famine of 1932–1933 in Ukraine (Holodomor), which took from 7 million to 10 million innocent lives and became a national tragedy for the Ukrainian people.`
      
      `[A]s a result of civil war and forced collectivization, leaving deep scars in the consciousness of future generations.`
      
      `[W]e deplore the acts and policies that brought about mass starvation and death of millions of people. We do not want to settle scores with the past, it could not be changed, but we are convinced that exposing violations of human rights, preserving historical records and restoring the dignity of victims through acknowledgement of their suffering, will guide future societies and help to avoid similar catastrophes in the future.` - [Letter dated 7 November 2003 from the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, United Nations, 2003](https://web.archive.org/web/20170313040724/http://repository.un.org/bitstream/handle/11176/246001/A_C.3_58_9-EN.pdf)