## Functionalism
Jumps off the Multi-Realizability Objection using Turing machine analysis. To be conscious, to exhibit some mental state, to feel being in pain, you require to be in some functional state with some apparatus, so our brain and the function is defined by our inputs, our sense data we receive externally based upon our outputs, something is gonna have the functional state of being in pain only if for every input they get, they always react with some output.
Behaviourism is similar to functionalism but what separates the two is that it is more than what is observable, it takes into account the pure mental states the behaviourist cannot. The functionalist takes into account the methods of which we get these inputs and outputs using pure mental processes as the behaviourist cannot.
An attempt at refuting functionalism is Searle's Chinese Room Problem. If a person was given a book full of `if x, then y, if a, then b` statements and was given x, they would output y. The example specifically included chinese letters being inputting and outputting answers based on those letters, this would be the human equivalent of a turing machine. Does this person know chinese? The question is ambiguous to one, the time at which the person is asked as it doesn't take into account the process of learning these translations as at one point they don't but in the future after continual interactions with the translations, i might be yes. And two, the translations given is not an adequate representation of the language we engage in as language isn't merely a translation. Another objection is that the analogy of the translations to language is impossible as language is infinite making this book also infinite and empirically impossible, not intuitively impossible. Language isn't feasible in the way this example attempts to make it out to be, natural language is necessarily built on human intuition and cant be constructed in such a thing as a turing machine as the example tries to draw to because of how language works. Recursion in language is simply a web of definitions by which everything is in reference to another definition or itself, a tautology, circular but not fallacious as it is not a justification. If you start correcting some of the points in The Chinese Room Problem like, the analogy of the translation and language, the infinite book, you start to get an example that demonstrates the proof of functionalism.
- Philosophical Zombies:
    - Inconceivable
    - conceivable but not metaphysically possible
    - metaphysically possible
- Mary's Room