## Types of Naturalism
Philosophical Naturalism
- A central thought on this is that all spatio temporal entities must be identical to or metaphysically constituted by physical entities. Many ontological naturalists thus adopt a physicalist attitude to mental, biological, social and other such “special” subject matters. They hold that there is nothing more to the mental, biological and social realms than arrangements of physical entities.
- This results in what they call `empirical` statements which are inductive in nature. This is applied globally making this position basically epistemic nihilism because this theory does not accept the analytic-synthetic distinction or the a priori-a posteriori distinction which are vital to fundamental objectivity to avoid complete relativism. Hulme would say the `laws of nature` are not things in the world, they are psychological tools in which we live our daily lives. Causality isn't a thing to be observed, it's an observation in which we inductively tie together events that i just call causality.

> Argument
Methodological Naturalism
- Methodological Naturalism is the specific claim that philosophy and science are both concerned to establish synthetic knowledge about the natural world, and moreover to achieve this by a posteriori investigation. From the methodological naturalist perspective, then, philosophical views are synthetic claims that answer to the overall tribunal of a posteriori observational evidence. The obvious objection to this view, however, is that it does not accord with philosophical practice. In particular, it seems in tension with the central role that intuitions play in philosophy. The typical way to assess philosophical views is arguably to test them against intuitive judgements about possible cases, not against a posteriori observational data. So, for example, the description theory of names is challenged by our intuitions about Kripke’s imagined counterexamples, the tripartite theory of knowledge by our intuitive reactions to Gettier cases, and so on. At first pass, this certainly suggests that philosophy is centrally concerned with the analysis of everyday concepts, not the construction of synthetic theories: it is using intuitions about possible cases to uncover the structure implicit in our concepts. The reliance on intuitions thus argues that, far from delivering synthetic a posteriori knowledge, philosophy uses a priori methods to deliver analytic conclusions.

> Argument