# What is Social Democracy?
## Define
- Social Democracy is when the government does stuff, more specifically that the government helps create a basic standard of living through well researched growth plans and tax policy focusing on primarily Wealth Inequality and Income Mobility to create a prosperous model for all.
	- `Social democracy (sometimes used synonymously with democratic socialism) refers to a political tendency resting on three fundamental features: (1) democracy (e.g., equal rights to vote and form parties), (2) an economy partly regulated by the state (e.g., through Keynesianism), and (3) a welfare state offering social support to those in need (e.g., equal rights to education, health service, employment, and pensions).` - [International encyclopedia of political science, Badie et al., 2011](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebgzz6ymnszyxxyf36llncqhplu4zilj5nsajnxynpaxpiymbldq4?filename=Bertrand%20Badie%2C%20Dirk%20Berg-Schlosser%2C%20Leonardo%20Morlino%20-%20International%20Encyclopedia%20of%20Political%20Science-SAGE%20Publications%2C%20Inc%20%282011%29.pdf)

# Why Social Democracy?
## Models
- [Creating Social Democracy: A Century of the Social Democratic Labor Party in Sweden, Misgeld et al., 1992](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafykbzaceaw5yx7qj2g6xyp6xzct3mr346hceaqyg2hirbvyix7xb656nv7rw?filename=Karl%20Molin%2C%20Klas%20Amark%2C%20Klaus%20Misgeld%20-%20Creating%20Social%20Democracy_%20A%20Century%20of%20the%20Social%20Democratic%20Labor%20Party%20in%20Sweden-Pennsylvania%20State%20University%20Press%20%282000%29.pdf)
    - From the making of the Welfare State to educational and agricultural policy, this book serves as an extensive detailing of Social Democratic importance in Sweden.
    - A must-read for learning how to build Social Democracy.
- [The New Monetary Policy: Reimagining Demand Management and Price Stability in the 21st Century, Tankus, 2022](https://files.modernmoney.network/M3F000001.pdf)
    - This excellent article discusses possibilities of pursuing unorthodox monetary policy to help address 21st century problems with 21st century tools.
- [The Rise and Fall of Social Democracy, 1918–2017, Benedetto et al., 2020](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1017/S0003055420000234)
- [Nordic economic policies in the 1970s and 1980s, Mjøset, 1987](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1017/S0020818300027533)

### Swedish Renn-Meidner Model
- The Rehn–Meidner model is an economic and wage policy model developed in 1951 by two economists at the research department of the Swedish Trade Union Confederation, Gösta Rehn and Rudolf Meidner. The four main goals to be achieved were: Low inflation, Full employment, High growth and Income equality.
- A 1993 Rudolf Meidner paper called `Why did the Swedish Model Fail?`, ironically, characterized many achievements of the model
    - `Full employment was maintained practically for the whole period. At the same time, the labour force participation rate rose to a peak European level, primarily because of the almost total integration of women into the labour market. By drawing on the whole population in the active ages, the input of labour is higher in Sweden than in any other European country - in spite of longer vacations and other leaves of absence.` - [Why Did the Swedish Model Fail?, Meidner, 1993](https://socialistregister.com/index.php/srv/article/view/5630/2528)
	    - A 1996 report found that `Some trends are easily discernible from Table 7. From 1965 to 1994, the inflow to unemployment falls across almost the whole period and then starts to increase again in the 1990s, while duration increases continually (except for a small decline in the 'overheated' years In the late 1980s). Whilst both these trends relate to prime-aged people (25-54 years), It is among the elderly (55-64 years) that duration has increased the most since the mid-1960s,` - [Labour market studies. Sweden, European Commission, 1997](http://aei.pitt.edu/60360/1/SWEDEN.pdf)
    - `Most importantly, the programme allotted to the state the responsibility for achieving and maintaining full employment. Leading social democrats, among them Gunnar Myrdal, talked about the 'harvest time' of Swedish Socialism. Instead it turned out to be the last time that leading members of the party used the term 'socialism'.` - [Why Did the Swedish Model Fail?, Meidner, 1993](https://socialistregister.com/index.php/srv/article/view/5630/2528)
    - `The universal welfare system developed into a network which meets all social needs - from the cradle to the grave. In the 1980s public expenditures reached a peak of 55 per cent of GDP and had to be financed by Western Europe's highest taxes. The public sector expanded immensely to employ one third of the labour force.` - [Why Did the Swedish Model Fail?, Meidner, 1993](https://socialistregister.com/index.php/srv/article/view/5630/2528)
    - `The wage policy of solidarity contributed to the compression of wage differentials'" The gap between male and female wages narrowed considerably, as a result of special clauses in the centrally negotiated contracts which favoured low paid workers.` - [Why Did the Swedish Model Fail?, Meidner, 1993](https://socialistregister.com/index.php/srv/article/view/5630/2528)
	    - - A 2000 paper found that `From 1956 up to 1983, without interruption, two peak bargaining organizations, LO for workers and SAF for employers, negotiated detailed “framework” wage agreements covering the entire blue-collar labor force in Swedish private industry. Equality of wage distribution was a vital union goal, and wage dispersion data indicate that, during this era of centralized “solidarity” bargaining, LO succeeded in obtaining large changes in the structure of relative wages. In fact, as the data graphed in figure 1 illustrate, between the early 1960s and the breakdown of central wage formation in the early 1980s, the total variance of bluecollar relative wages declined by a whopping 75%.` - [Wage Dispersion and Productive Efficiency: Evidence for Sweden, Hibbs Jr. and Locking, 2000](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1086/209976)
    - `At the beginning of the 80s, Sweden showed the most egalitarian wage structure amongst Western countries. This was achieved through a labour market policy which relieved the unions of the responsibilities for employment problems caused by wage claims for the low-paid in declining firms and branches.` - [Why Did the Swedish Model Fail?, Meidner, 1993](https://socialistregister.com/index.php/srv/article/view/5630/2528)
    - `Social democratic Full employment Price stability Combination of restrictive general measures and selective labour market policy governments also accommodated the unions in another way: excess profits - which make wage restraint in profitable firms hazardous for the local unions - have been at least partly neutralized by payments into different funds, (among them the union-administered wage-earner funds - albeit in a rather symbolic shape, as we shall see).` - [Why Did the Swedish Model Fail?, Meidner, 1993](https://socialistregister.com/index.php/srv/article/view/5630/2528)
- A 2003 paper found that:
    - `The response of management, we argue, was a perfectly rational one to a serious labour problem. The most dynamic and largest firms in the economy faced severe labour supply shortages in the early postwar years that threatened to compromise their competitive position and choke off growth. Ironically, it was the Rehn-Meidner plan, the work of two labour union economists, that saved the day. While centralised wage bargaining played an instrumental role in the plan, it was the former, not the latter, that created the conditions for wage moderation. As we explain in this article, the purpose of the plan was to promote economic expansion with full employment and low inflation and to ensure that labour received its fair share of the growth dividend. The process was ingenious and simple. Wage increases for low paid workers would exceed increases for those higher up on the pay scale. This would compel low-wage firms to shut down (or raise productivity) and would thus liberate workers for employment in the high- wage, high-growth sectors. Labour transfer was to be facilitated by an active labour market policy on the part of the government - retraining, relocation, and job search assistance. Centralised wage determination was viewed strictly as a means to an end - it made possible wage compression from below and fostered labour release. In essence, then, the Rehn-Meidner plan produced wage moderation in a very conventional manner - it facilitated an increase in the supply of labour to the most dynamic sectors of the economy. In this respect, the Swedish experience is much closer to that of, say, Germany and Italy than is usually recognised.` - [Centralized Wage Bargaining and Structural Change In Sweden, Alexopoulos, 2003](https://www.economics.utoronto.ca/malex/cwbjan28full.pdf)
- A 2010 paper found that:
    - `The typical Swedish economic and wage policy program — the R-M model — was never consistently implemented. Yet, a period from the late 1950s to the early 1970s was the golden age for the model; it legitimized the expansion of labor-market policy and the practice of the wage policy of solidarity in Sweden. There were some unique Swedish circumstances behind the application of the R-M model — the highly coordinated wage bargaining system, the strong position for state interventionism, the political dominance of the social democrats and the strength and priorities of LO. Also, by emphasizing price-stability and growth, the R-M model yielded a strong economic rationale for labor-market policies and wage policy of solidarity. Swedish deviations from the model since the middle of the 1970s are explained by negative policy experiences, lost positions and new strategies of LO, new generations of economic policy decision makers, new economic theories (challenging discretionary economic policy) and the growing influence of economists in the Ministry of Finance. The break with the R-M model is also explained by less coordinated wage bargaining (threatening the wage policy of solidarity) and by political-institutional changes, primarily deregulation of credit markets (leading to overheating in the 1980s) and new exchange-rate systems (providing more space for profit booms through devaluations/depreciations).` - [The Rehn-Meidner Model in Sweden: Its Rise, Challenges and Survival, Erixon, 2010](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.2753/jei0021-3624440306)

### Norwegian Aukrust-EFO Model
- The Norwegian Aukrust-EFO Model is a model
### Danish Flexicurity Model
- The Danish Flexicurity Model is a model
### Icelandic-Finnish Model
- The Icelandic-Finnish Model is a model
- 
## Poverty
Poverty is the state of not having enough material possessions or income for a person's basic needs.
- A 2011 paper found that
	- ` ` - [Tackling Child Poverty & Improving Child Well-Being: Lessons from Britain, Waldfogel, 2011](https://www.fcd-us.org/assets/2011/02/First20Focus20-20Tackling20Child20Poverty.pdf)
- A 2017 paper found that
    - `Low socio-economic status has repeatedly been listed as a risk factor for numerous metabolic conditions, including obesity, type 2 diabetes and CVD. Although the influences of socio-economic status on health are complex and multifactorial, and although metabolic diseases often include environmental and genetic risk, the contribution of dietary factors is not trivial. In this Opinion, we have considered how the dietary trade-offs faced by individuals who do not consume a beneficial ratio of whole, minimally processed foods (for either financial or social reasons) can have a negative impact on the basic metabolism, immune system and general health of the host, in a manner that is at least partly dependent on the microbiota.` - [How poverty affects diet to shape the microbiota and chronic disease, Harrison and Taren, 2018](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1038/nri.2017.121)
- A 2019 paper found that
	- ` ` - [Economic Security Programs Cut Poverty Nearly in Half Over Last 50 Years, Trisi and Saenz, 2019](https://www.cbpp.org/sites/default/files/atoms/files/9-14-18pov.pdf)
- A 2021 paper found that
    - `Poverty traps are one of the most fundamental concepts in development economics. The contribution of this paper has been to provide evidence for their existence using the combination of a randomized asset transfer and an 11-year panel in rural Bangladesh. Our key finding is that people stay poor because they lack opportunity. It is not their intrinsic characteristics that trap people in poverty but rather their circumstances. This has three implications for how we think about development policy.` - [Why Do People Stay Poor?, Balboni et al., 2022](https://web.archive.org/web/20210417172804/https://economics.mit.edu/files/21191)
    - `The first is that big pushes that enable occupational change will be needed to address the global mass poverty problem.` - [Why Do People Stay Poor?, Balboni et al., 2022](https://web.archive.org/web/20210417172804/https://economics.mit.edu/files/21191)
    - `The second is that big push policies can have long-lasting effects.` - [Why Do People Stay Poor?, Balboni et al., 2022](https://web.archive.org/web/20210417172804/https://economics.mit.edu/files/21191)
    - `The third is that poverty traps create mismatches between talent and jobs.` - [Why Do People Stay Poor?, Balboni et al., 2022](https://web.archive.org/web/20210417172804/https://economics.mit.edu/files/21191)
- A 2024 paper found that
	- ` ` - [Social Security Lifts More People Above the Poverty Line Than Any Other Program, Romig, 2024](https://www.cbpp.org/sites/default/files/atoms/files/10-25-13ss.pdf)

## Wealth Inequality
Wealth inequality is the unequal distribution of assets among residents of a country.
- The Gini index is a statistical measure used to represent unequal distributions, e.g. income distribution. It can take any value between 1 and 100 points (or 0 and 1). The closer the value is to 100 the greater is the inequality. 40 or 0.4 is the warning level set by the United Nations. Using this index, we see the U.S. higher compared to Social Democratic countries like Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. - [Gini index - Sweden, United States, Finland, Denmark, Norway, World Bank](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SI.POV.GINI?locations=SE-US-FI-DK-NO&name_desc=false)
- A 2018 paper by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board found that every kind of inequality is getting worse, wealth inequality, income inequality and consumption inequality in regards to the share of the top 5% compared to the bottom 95%. - [Inequality in 3-D: Income, Consumption, and Wealth, Fisher et al., 2018](https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/feds/files/2018001pap.pdf)
- In 2018, Oxfam published a study on the wealth across the globe, Eighty two percent of the wealth generated in 2017 went to the richest one percent of the global population. The 3.7 billion people who make up the poorest half of the world saw no increase in their wealth in 2017. - [Richest 1 percent bagged 82 percent of wealth created last year - poorest half of humanity got nothing, Oxfam International, 2018](https://www.oxfam.org/en/press-releases/richest-1-percent-bagged-82-percent-wealth-created-last-year-poorest-half-humanity)
- Inequality.org finds that the Top 1% Income Share Has Doubled While Poverty Has Held Steady. An estimated 40 percent of the total U.S. population (140 million people) are either poor or low-income. The nation’s highest 0.01 percent and 0.1 percent of income-earners have seen their incomes rise much faster than the rest of the top 1 percent in recent decades. The top 1 percent of U.S. earners take home a disproportionate amount of income compared to even the nation’s highest fifth of earners. CBO data indicate that the top 1 percent earns 85 times as much as the bottom 20 percent. There is a causal Negative Relationship Between Union Membership and Skewed Growth.
    - `As the share of the workforce represented by a union has declined to less than 11 percent since their peak in the 1940s and 1950s, those at the top of the income scale have increased their power to rig economic rules in their favor, further increasing income inequality.` - [Income Inequality, Inequality.org](https://inequality.org/facts/income-inequality/)
- Top CEOs make more than 300 times that of the average worker. The chief executive officers of America’s largest firms earn three times more than they did 20 years ago and at least 10 times more than 30 years ago, big gains even relative to other very-high-wage earners. - [Top CEOs Make 300 Times More Than Typical Workers, Mishel and Davis, 2015](https://files.epi.org/2015/top-ceos-make-300-times-more-than-typical-workers.pdf)
- Younger people face unique systemic disadvantages, such as unemployment, lack of housing, and student debt, indicative of an inadequate economy. Compared to previous generations at the same age, millennials and younger people: Are more unemployed, Own fewer homes themselves, Are failing to out-earn their parents and Are burdened with record student debt. - [Five charts show why millennials are worse off than their parents, Financial Times, 2017](https://www.ft.com/content/e5246526-8c2c-11e7-a352-e46f43c5825d)
Although this would seem that removing all Wealth Inequality is a good idea, but for example, Zero wage inequality would be bad for a market because small differences in pay can enormously increase productivity, such as in “merit pay” for teachers
- A 2020 Paper found that `Empirical research investigating the association between teacher pay incentives and student test scores has grown rapidly over the past decade. To integrate the findings from these studies and help inform the debate over teacher merit pay, this meta-analysis synthesizes effect sizes across 37 primary studies, 26 of which were conducted in the United States. Among the U.S. based studies, the results suggest that the effect of teacher merit pay on student test scores is positive and statistically significant (0.043 standard deviation). This summary effect varies by program design and study context, suggesting that teacher merit pay has the potential to improve student test scores in some contexts but researchers and policymakers should pay close attention to program design and implementation.` - [Teacher Merit Pay: A Meta-Analysis, Pham et al., 2021](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.3102/0002831220905580)

## Income Mobility
Income mobility is the ability of an individual, family or some other group to improve (or lower) their economic status.
- The Global Social Mobility Index founded by The World Economic Forum is a statistical measure used to represent in individual countries, how many generations it would take a poor family to reach the median income of that country. It can take any value between 1 and 100 points (or 0 and 1). The closer the value is to 100 the greater is the mobility. Using this index, we see the U.S. higher compared to Social Democratic countries like Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. - [link](https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/01/these-are-the-10-countries-with-the-best-social-mobility/)
- A 2007 report found that
    - `Compared to the same peer group, Germany is 1.5 times more mobile than the United States, Canada nearly 2.5 times more mobile, and Denmark 3 times more mobile. Only the United Kingdom has relative mobility levels on par with those of the United States.` - [Economic Mobility: Is the American Dream Alive and Well?, Economic Mobility Project, 2007](https://web.archive.org/web/20071101225557/http://www3.brookings.edu/views/papers/sawhill/200705.pdf)
- A 2018 Paper found that
    - `Life expectancy is strongly associated with income across societies and within societies. The relationship between income class and life expectancy within a society is important for evaluating equity and assessing the costs and benefits of public health and social security policies.` - [Role of income mobility for the measurement of inequality in life expectancy, Kreiner et al., 2018](https://www.pnas.org/doi/pdf/10.1073/pnas.1811455115)
- A 2018 OECD report found that on average, it would take 5 generations to move from the bottom 10% to the median 50% of incomes in the USA compared to Social Democratic countries like Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. - [link](https://www.oecd.org/social/broken-elevator-how-to-promote-social-mobility-9789264301085-en.htm)
    - `Africa’s very low income from global trade thus creates the need for loans from the World Bank and funds from the International Monetary Fund (IMF).` `In essence, the externalist perspective outlined thus far views African economies as predominantly dependent on global factors.` - [The global ‘order’, socioeconomic status and the economics of African identity, Kamau and Rutland, 2005](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1080/14725840500235407)

## The Great Gatsby Curve
The Great Gatsby curve is a chart plotting the relationship between inequality and intergenerational social immobility using both the Gini and Global Social Mobility Indexes. Social democratic countries tend to rank low in both inequality and mobility.
- `Denmark, Norway, and Finland all fell at the bottom-left part of the curve. This means that a child in a low-income family has a better opportunity to move up the economic ladder than a child in a similar situation in a country with higher inequality and higher elasticity.` - [Great Gatsby Curve: Relationship Between Inequality and Mobility, Business Insider, 2020](https://www.businessinsider.com/great-gatsby-curve-relationship-between-income-inequality-and-mobility-2020-2?r=US&IR=T\#nordic-countries-are-closely-grouped-together-at-the-low-inequality-high-mobility-part-of-the-curve-2)

## General Wellbeing
- In the 2020 World Happiness report, under the section called `The Nordic Exceptionalism` it discusses `What exactly makes Nordic citizens so exceptionally satisfied with their lives?` it concludes that:
    - `While this chapter focuses on the Nordic countries, a quick glance at the other countries regularly found at the top of international comparisons of life satisfaction – Switzerland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Canada, and Australia – reveals that they also have most of the same elements in place. Thus, there seems to be no secret sauce specific to Nordic happiness that is unavailable to others. There is rather a more general recipe for creating highly satisfied citizens: Ensure that state institutions are of high quality, non-corrupt, able to deliver what they promise, and generous in taking care of citizens in various adversities.` - [The Nordic Exceptionalism: What Explains Why the Nordic Countries are Constantly Among the Happiest in the World, World Happiness Report et al., 2020](https://happiness-report.s3.amazonaws.com/2020/WHR20_Ch7.pdf)
- A 2018 paper found that:
    - `Social democratic welfare states, higher public spending, fair trade policies, extensions to compulsory education provision, microfinance initiatives in low-income countries, health and safety policy, improved access to health care, and high-quality affordable housing have positive impacts on population health.` - [Impact of Political Economy on Population Health: A Systematic Review of Reviews, McCartney et al., 2019](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.2105/AJPH.2019.305001)
- When it comes to gender equality, it can be said that the Nordic countries hold one of the smallest gaps in gender employment inequality of all OECD countries.
    - `Today, the Nordic countries boast some of the most gender-equal labour markets in the OECD. Gender gaps in labour market participation and employment are among the OECD's smallest, particularly for highly-educated men and women.` - [Is the Last Mile the Longest? Economic Gains from Gender Equality in Nordic Countries, OECD, 2018](https://www.oecd.org/els/emp/last-mile-longest-gender-nordic-countries-brief.pdf)
- Political scientists have tracked a relationship between Socioeconomic status (SES) and political participation.
    - `Simply put, those nearer to the top of the Socioeconomic status ladder are far more likely to participate in politics than those closer to the bottom.` - [Social Networks and Political Participation, Campbell, 2013](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1146/annurev-polisci-033011-201728)

## Innovation
- In 2020, the European Commission found that in the EU, countries with more functional safety nets (mainly in Scandinavia and Western Europe) perform better when it comes to innovation.
    - `Sweden continues to be the EU innovation leader, followed by Finland, Denmark and the Netherlands.` - [link](https://ec.europa.eu/growth/industry/policy/innovation/scoreboards_en)
- In 2020 the World bank ranked Sweden 2nd and the U.S. 3rd in the Global Innovation Index in the highest income group. - [link](https://www.visualcapitalist.com/national-innovation-the-most-innovative-countries-by-income/)

# Social Safety Nets
## [Socialised Healthcare](../Political%20Positions/Social%20Policy/Socialised%20Healthcare)  
## [Wage Earner Funds](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Wage%20Earner%20Funds)  
## [University Financing](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/University%20Financing)  
## [Redistributive Cash Transfers](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Redistributive%20Cash%20Transfers)  
## [Minimum Wage](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Minimum%20Wage)  
## [Socialised Housing](../Political%20Positions/Social%20Policy/Socialised%20Housing)  
## [Food Stamps](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Food%20Stamps)  
## [Unemployment Benefits](Unemployment%20Benefits)  

# Economic Funding/Growth
## [Keynesian Economics](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Keynesian%20Economics)  
## [Progressive Income Tax](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Progressive%20Income%20Tax)  
## [Multilateral & Liberalized Trade](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Multilateral%20&%20Liberalized%20Trade)  

# Workers Rights
## [Unions](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Unions)  
## [Capped Work Time](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Capped%20Work%20Time)  
## [Worker Benefits](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Worker%20Benefits)  
## [Social Equality](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Social%20Equality)  

# Environmental Regulation
## [Carbon Tax](../Political%20Positions/Environmental%20Policy/Carbon%20Tax)  
## [Emissions Trading](../Political%20Positions/Environmental%20Policy/Emissions%20Trading)  
## [1970- Environmental Protection Agency](../Political%20Positions/Environmental%20Policy/1970-%20Environmental%20Protection%20Agency)  

# Anti-Social Democracy Debunks
## [Government Assistance Doesn’t Make People Lazy](../Political%20Positions/Economic%20Policy/Government%20Assistance%20Doesn’t%20Make%20People%20Lazy)  