- Brexit was the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union at 23:00 GMT on 31 January 2020. A UK-wide referendum was held on 23 June 2016, in which 51.89 per cent voted in favour of leaving the EU and 48.11 per cent voted to remain a member.
- In 2017, the Financial Times reported that there were approximately 759 international agreements, spanning 168 non-EU countries, that the UK would no longer be a party to upon leaving the EU.
    - `Through analysis of the EU treaty database, the FT found 759 separate EU bilateral agreements with potential relevance to Britain, covering trade in nuclear goods, customs, fisheries, trade, transport and regulatory co-operation in areas such as antitrust or financial services. This includes multilateral agreements based on consensus, where Britain must re-approach 132 separate parties. Around 110 separate opt-in accords at the UN and World Trade Organization are excluded from the estimates, as are narrow agreements on the environment, health, research and science. Some additional UK bilateral deals, outside the EU framework, may also need to be revised because they make reference to EU law.` [link](https://www.ft.com/content/f1435a8e-372b-11e7-bce4-9023f8c0fd2e)
# Invoking Article 50
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom_invocation_of_Article_50_of_the_Treaty_on_European_Union)
- On 16 March 2017, The European Union (Notification of Withdrawal) Act 2017 was passed to empower the Prime Minister to give to the Council of the European Union the formal notice required by Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union for starting negotiations for the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union
- On 29 March 2017, The Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the European Union Tim Barrow hand delivers a letter from May to Donald Tusk that officially invokes Article 50. A two-year negotiating process begins, with the UK due to leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
# 2017 Brexit White Paper
- On
	- ` ` - [The United Kingdom’s exit from and new partnership with the European Union, HM Government, 2017](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/5a74b934e5274a3f93b4849b/The_United_Kingdoms_exit_from_and_partnership_with_the_EU_Web.pdf)
# 2017 Snap Election
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_United_Kingdom_general_election)
- On 18 April 2017, 
- On 8 June 2017, The general election is held, with 32,204,184 votes being cast for a turnout of 68.7%. The Conservatives win 318 seats in total, a net loss of 13. Although still the largest party in the House of Commons, they no longer have a parliamentary majority, resulting in a hung parliament.
# Chequers Agreement
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chequers_plan)
- On 6 July 2018,
- On 9 July 2018,
	- ` ` - [Brexit secretary David Davis resigns plunging government into crisis](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2018/jul/08/david-davis-resigns-as-brexit-secretary-reports-say)
	- ` ` - [May's plan 'sticks in the throat', says Boris Johnson as he resigns over Brexit](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2018/jul/09/boris-johnson-resigns-as-foreign-secretary-brexit)
- On 12 July 2018, 
	- ` ` - [The Future Relationship Between the United Kingdom And the European Union, HM Government, 2018](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/786626/The_Future_Relationship_between_the_United_Kingdom_and_the_European_Union_120319.pdf)
# First Draft of EU-UK Withdrawal Agreement
- On 14 November 2018, The EU and UK negotiating teams agree on the draft text of the withdrawal agreement, which is published as a 585-page document.
	- ` ` - [Draft Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community, HM Government, 2018](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/5bec6bf0e5274a082c807619/14_November_Draft_Agreement_on_the_Withdrawal_of_the_United_Kingdom_of_Great_Britain_and_Northern_Ireland_from_the_European_Union.pdf)
	- ` ` - [Explainer for the agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union, HM Government, 2018](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/5bec6ee9e5274a08321546d8/14_November_Explainer_for_the_agreement_on_the_withdrawal_of_the_United_Kingdom_of_Great_Britain_and_Northern_Ireland_from_the_European_Union___1_.pdf)
- On 15 November 2018, Four ministers, including Raab, resign from the government.
	- ` ` - [Four resignations and a threat: Read the letters in full, Sky News, 2018](https://news.sky.com/story/we-quit-read-each-ministers-resignation-letters-in-full-11554767)
# 
# Operation Yellowhammer
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Yellowhammer)
- On 25 March 2019, 
- On 18 August 2019, an official cabinet Yellowhammer document from earlier that month was leaked
# Prorogation of Parliament
- On 28 August 2019, Johnson declared he had asked the Queen to prorogue parliament from 10 September until 14 October, narrowing the window in which parliament could block a no-deal Brexit.
	- ` ` - [link](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/aug/28/chancellor-sajid-javid-fast-tracked-spending-review-fuels-talk-of-early-election)
- On 11 September 2019, The UK Supreme Courts found that
    - `In our view, the decision of the Prime Minister to advise Her Majesty the Queen to prorogue Parliament is not justiciable in Her Majesty's courts.` [link](https://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWHC/QB/2019/2381.html)
# Economic Impacts
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `While soft Brexit would not be without significant challenges for UK financial services, it would surely be a lower-risk option for the City than the other possible outcomes we have considered. However, soft Brexit would require one of the parties to soften its current stance on free movement, which seems unlikely. Hard Brexit, on the other hand, would cause UK firms to lose their exports to the EU where 3CE provisions are not in place (such as banking), and likely subject the UK to intensifying competition from the US in those areas in which 3CE provisions could be relied upon (such as wholesale markets). The best outcome for the UK, absent breaking the deadlock on free movement, would be for a negotiated agreement on financial services that offers something more than the patchwork of 3CE provisions discussed above.` [link](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/oxrep/grx014) - Brexit and financial services, Armour, 2017
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `Following the June 2016 referendum, sterling depreciated sharply and by the end of June 2017 was 12 percent lower against the dollar than immediately before the vote. As shown in Figure 1, this has contributed to a rise in inflation from 0.5 percent in June 2016 to 2.6 percent a year later and a decline in real wage growth from 1.5 percent to -0.5 percent over the same period. Output growth in the UK has also slowed, with GDP increasing at an annualized rate of 1.0 percent in the first half of 2017, compared to 1.7 percent in the year leading up to the referendum. These statistics suggest the referendum outcome is already harming the UK economy, though, of course, Britain is yet to leave the EU.` [link](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1257/jep.31.4.163) - Brexit: The Economics of International Disintegration, Sampson, 2017
- A leaked 2018 Briefing for the House of Commons Exiting the European Union Committee found that:
    - `External estimates of the impact of an EEA-type scenario range from an increase of 1.1% to GDP to a reduction of 10% - relative to underlying growth - with a number of estimates. clustered close to a 2% reduction, averaging just over 2.5%. External estimates of a basic FTA-type scenario range from a reduction to GDP of just under 1% to 12.5% - relative to underlying growth, with the average around 4%.` [link](https://www.parliament.uk/globalassets/documents/commons-committees/Exiting-the-European-Union/17-19/Cross-Whitehall-briefing/EU-Exit-Analysis-Cross-Whitehall-Briefing.pdf) - EU Exit Analysis - Cross Whitehall Briefing, House of Commons Exiting the European Union Committee, 2018
- A 2018 Government Meta-Analysis found that:
    - `External estimates of a WTO scenario range between -1.5 per cent and -18 per cent GDP change, compared to what it otherwise would have been. Considering only trade effects the Government analysis of the modelled no deal scenario results in GDP that is estimated to be between 6.3 and 9.0 per cent lower in the long run.` `Many of these same studies also analyse the impacts of moving to an FTA scenario. These studies find a long-term effect on GDP that ranges from -0.6 per cent to -12.5 per cent, which is broadly consistent with the Government's findings of -3.4 to –6.4 per cent.` [link](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/760484/28_November_EU_Exit_-_Long-term_economic_analysis__1_.pdf) - EU Exit - Long-term economic analysis, HM Govemment, 2018
- A 2018 paper found that:
    - `We estimate that if firms exporting from the UK to the EU had not faced an increase in trade policy uncertainty, then 5.0% more firms would have entered into exporting to the EU in 2016, whilst 6.1% fewer firms would have exited from exporting to the EU.` ... `we estimate that the decline in entry and induced exit reduced the value of exports by between £394 million and £3.0 billion in 2016, a small total value relative to total exports to the EU in 2016 of £139 billion.` [link](https://ukandeu.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/Renegotiation-trade-agreements.pdf) - Renegotiation of Trade Agreements and Firm Exporting Decisions: Evidence from the Impact of Brexit on UK Exports, Crowley et al., 2018
- A 2018 paper found that:
    - `Despite the lack of formal barriers, our work confirms very clearly that an announcement can have strong economic effects. Regarding the United Kingdom’s exports, we find clear evidence of an inward shift in the demand curve, so that the sharp fall in Sterling at the time of the referendum announcement did not lead to increased exports. Further robustness checks confirm that this does not seem to be simply a case of the response of exports to devaluation being delayed. On the import side, we find another very marked effect. Imports from EU countries change little. However, there was a very marked spike in imports from certain non-EU countries - almost entirely ones which we might term the ‘Anglosphere’. This spike seems to have been temporary, and may have consisted in stockbuilding in anticipation of increased demand in the products of Britain’s former colonies by Leave voters.` [link](https://www.etsg.org/ETSG2018/papers/200.pdf) - The Trade Effects of Announcement Shocks: Brexit as a natural ﬁeld experiment, Douch et al., 2018
- A 2019 paper found that:
    - `If British growth suffers as a result of Brexit, sterling’s role as an international currency will be diminished, but to what extent remains to be seen. If the country’s foreign trade and investment, with the EU and generally, fall significantly as a result, that role will be diminished further.` ... `While Brexit does not imply much change in the role of the UK in the Bretton Woods institutions, the G7 and G20, or the Basel Committee and Financial Stability Board, it creates an opportunity for EU and euro-area countries to consolidate their representation and speak more forcefully, with one voice. We are about to find out whether they are prepared to capitalize on the opportunity.` [link](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1007/s10368-018-0422-x) - The international financial implications of Brexit, Eichengreen, 2019
- A 2019 paper found that:
    - `The negative impacts of the two scenarios are much larger in the UK than in the EU-27 for all macroeconomic variables. GDP in the UK is projected to contract by –1.23 and –2.53 percent under the soft and hard Brexit, respectively. By contrast, for the EU-27 the fall in GDP would be much milder: –0.16 and –0.35 percent after the soft and hard Brexit, respectively. Reductions in private consumption are more pronounced than the reduction in GDP in both regions. The UK loses more than the EU-27 in absolute terms (billions of dollars, 2020) as well as in percentage change. After the hard Brexit, the consumption loss is –3.17 percent (–62.70 billions of dollars) for the UK versus –0.59 percent (–57.98 billions of dollars) for the EU-27. In the case of the soft Brexit, the consumption loss would be –1.56 percent (–30.82 billions of dollars) in the UK and –0.27 percent (–26.18 billions of dollars) in the EU-27. Changes in NTBs account for the largest share of the total negative impact. The change in FDI also plays a significant role—it explains around one-third of the contraction in GDP and private consumption in the UK and EU-27. The results for wages and capital remuneration are parallel to the changes in GDP and private consumption. Increases in NTBs induce the largest reduction in factor remuneration, even though reduced FDI also has an important negative contribution. Average wages and capital remuneration in the UK are projected to decline by –2.83 and –3.34 percent in the UK with the hard Brexit, respectively, and by –1.26 and –1.59 percent, respectively, with the soft Brexit. Reductions in wages and capital remuneration are approximately seven times larger in the UK than in the EU-27. Declines in factor prices lead to reductions in the consumer price index (CPI) in the EU-27 (last rows in table 2), but not in the UK, where larger trade barriers applied to half of its trade result in price increases.` [link](https://web.archive.org/web/20190331063646/https://www.piie.com/system/files/documents/wp19-5.pdf) - Brexit: Everyone Loses, but Britain Loses the Most, Latorre et al., 2019
- A 2019 paper found that:
    - `Consistent with the model we find that in the two years following the referendum, consumer price inflation rose more for products with higher import shares and that producer price inflation rose more for products where imported inputs account for a larger share of production costs.` ... `We use our pass-through estimates to quantify how the roughly 10 percent depreciation of sterling in the immediate aftermath of the Brexit referendum affected living costs in the UK. Our preferred estimate is that the depreciation increased consumer prices by 2.9 percent and that this led to a comparable decline in real wage growth. Increases in the cost of living were similar across households in different deciles of the income distribution, but not across regions. London suffered least, while Northern Ireland and Wales were worst hit.` [link](https://www.freit.org/WorkingPapers/Papers/TradePolicyRegional/FREIT1655.pdf) - Exchange Rates and Consumer Prices: Evidence from Brexit, Breinlich et al., 2019
- A 2019 paper found that:
    - `First, the UK’s decision to leave the EU has generated a large, broad and long-lasting increase in uncertainty. Compared to previous uncertainty shocks Brexit is notable for its persistently high level of uncertainty, which sets it apart from other measures of uncertainty which capture immediate responses to shocks that quickly die away. Second, anticipation of Brexit has gradually reduced investment by about 11% over the three years following the June 2016 vote. This fall in investment took longer to arise than predicted at the time of the Brexit vote, suggesting that heightened and persistent uncertainty may have slowed firms’ response to the Brexit vote. Finally, the Brexit process is estimated to have reduced the level of UK productivity by between 2% to 5% over the three years since the referendum. Much of this drop is from a negative within-firm effect, in part because firms are committing several hours per week of top-management time to Brexit planning.` [link](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w26218/w26218.pdf) - The Impact of Brexit on UK Firms, Bloom et al., 2019
- Two 2021 IGM surveys of a panel of 83 economists found that 0%-2% disagree with `The UK economy is likely to be at least several percentage points smaller in 2030 than it would have been if the country had remained in the European Union.` [link](https://www.igmchicago.org/surveys/after-brexit/) [link](https://www.igmchicago.org/surveys/after-brexit-2/)
- A 2022 Office for Budget Responsibility report found that:
    - `The new trading relationship between the UK and EU, as set out in the ‘Trade and Cooperation Agreement’ (TCA) that came into effect on 1 January 2021, will reduce long-run productivity by 4 per cent relative to remaining in the EU.` ... `Both exports and imports will be around 15 per cent lower in the long run than if the UK had remained in the EU.` ... `Our revenue forecasts include the tariff revenue collected on both EU and non-EU trade based on the UK Global Tariff (UKGT) introduced on 1 January 2021. Annex A of our October 2021 EFO discusses the likely reasons behind customs duty receipts in 2021-22 running ahead of expectations, resulting in an upwards forecast revision of £1.1 billion a year.` ... `Many aspects of the VAT and excise duty regimes changed during 2021. We assume that these changes lead to a temporary rise in the level of tax non-compliance.` [link](https://obr.uk/forecasts-in-depth/the-economy-forecast/brexit-analysis/\#assumptions) - Brexit analysis, Office for Budget Reponsibility, 2022
# Migration Impacts
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `The results are in line with theory and the existing literature: we find large impacts of push (Origin GDP) and pull (UK GDP) factors, and tentative evidence of the impact of Origin unemployment rate fluctuations. The large (compared to multiple-destination analyses) impacts associated with some of the drivers may reflect the flexibility of the UK labour markets. Interestingly, the six-fold increase in IPS (International Passenger Survey) inflows associated with switching to Free Movement is quantitatively similar to the increase in NINos (National Insurance Number) we found in earlier research, suggesting our earlier conclusion that ending free movement will result in a substantial fall in migration is robust to the use of different data sources` [link](https://docs.iza.org/dp10802.pdf) - Macroeconomic Determinants of International Migration to the UK, Forte and Portes, 2017
# Health Policy Impacts
- A 2019 paper found that
    - `The UK is especially dependent on imports of fresh fruit and vegetables and a modelling study estimated that a No-Deal Brexit could lead to between 6000 and 23 000 excess deaths from cardiovascular disease between 2021 and 2030.` [link](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1016/S0140-6736(19)30425-8) - How will Brexit affect health services in the UK? An updated evaluation, Fahy et al., 2019
# Political Science Impacts
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `Interestingly, and contrary to the political debate in the run-up to the election, the authors find that relatively little variation in the Vote Leave share is explained by an area’s exposure to the EU or other countries (immigration and trade) or by the quality of public services and fiscal consolidation. Demographic and education characteristics are instead found to matter decisively more. Two variables, age and education, can explain as much as 77% of the cross-sectional variation in the Vote Leave share. One variable – the share of population with no qualifications – can explain as much as 62% of the variation in the Vote Leave share! No other variable, among the nearly 30 variables considered, is found to have such a strong explanatory power.` ... `Education (or the lack of it) could matter more for two broad reasons. First, people with low or no qualifications may be harder hit by immigration, globalization, and austerity measures. Part of education’s strong explanatory power may thus be due to other economic factors left in the error term when considering demographic and education characteristics alone. Second, people with low or no qualifications may be exactly the demographic that is more easily swayed by the misinformation and unrealistic promises of the Leave campaign. Education may thus be proxying for the role of the anti-EU propaganda that dominated the tabloid press at the run-up to the election.` [link](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/epolic/eix012) - Who voted for Brexit? A comprehensive district-level analysis, Becker et al., 2017
- A 2017 paper found that:
    - `In the UK referendum, the Remain campaign seemed to assume that such expertise would remain authoritative. Instead, it appeared strikingly ineffective and was systematically attacked by Leave campaigners, who recurrently attacked ‘experts’ and promoted a view of the ‘sovereignty’ of voters. A Daily Telegraph commentary pointed up the consistency of this theme: ‘I think people in this country,’ declared Vote Leave’s Michael Gove, ‘have had enough of experts.’ His fellow Brexiteers were quick to back him up. ‘There is only one expert that matters,’ said Labour MP Gisela Stuart, also of Vote Leave, ‘and that’s you, the voter.’ Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, suggested that many independent experts were actually in the pay of the Government or the EU. All three reminded voters of occasions when ‘the socalled experts’ had made mistakes.` [link](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1080/19460171.2017.1282376) - ‘People in this country have had enough of experts’: Brexit and the paradoxes of populism, Clarke and Newman, 2017
  
- A 2019 paper found that:
    - `The austerity-induced increase in support for UKIP is not negligible and suggests that the tight 2016 EU referendum could have well resulted in a victory for Remain had it not been for austerity (Leave won by a margin of 3.8 percentage points). The point estimates suggest that UKIP vote shares increased by between 3.5 to 11.9 percentage points due to austerity. Given the tight link between UKIP vote shares and an area’s support for Leave, simple back-of-the-envelope calculations suggest that Leave support in 2016 could have been easily at least 6 percentage points lower. Because, as this paper shows, support for UKIP is likely to understate the overall impact that austerity had on Leave sentiment, the results suggest that without austerity, Remain would likely have won the EU referendum.` [link](https://sci-hub.ee/10.1257/aer.20181164) - Did Austerity Cause Brexit?, Fetzer, 2019