### 2022 Lee Anderson Foodbanks Comments
- On 11 May 2022, Lee Anderson faced backlash after saying there's not this massive use for food banks in this country during a Commons debate and that people can make a meal for about 30p a day.
    
    - Lee Anderson: `the hon. Member for St Helens North made some great comments about food banks. My invitation is to every Opposition Member: come to Ashfield, work with me for a day in my local food bank and see the brilliant scheme we have in place. When people come for a food parcel now, they have to register for a budgeting course and a cooking course. We show them how to cook cheap and nutritious meals on a budget; we can make a meal for about 30p a day, and this is cooking from scratch.`  
    -   
    - Alex Cunningham: `Can the hon. Gentleman answer a simple question for me: should it be necessary to have food banks in 21st century Britain?`  
    -   
    - Lee Anderson: `I thank the hon. Gentleman for his intervention, as he makes a great point. Indeed, it is exactly my point, so I invite him personally to come to Ashfield to look at how our food bank works. He will see at first hand that there is not this massive use for food banks in this country. We have generation after generation who cannot cook properly—they cannot cook a meal from scratch—and they cannot budget. The challenge is there. I make that offer to anybody. Opposition Members are sitting there with glazed expressions on their faces, looking at me as though I have landed from a different planet. They should come to Ashfield, next week or the week after, and come to a real food bank that is making a real difference to people’s lives.`  
    - [link](https://hansard.parliament.uk/Commons/2022-05-11/debates/9711762D-D7FB-4A83-B43D-20F89F7A5DC7/PreventingCrimeAndDeliveringJustice?highlight=show%20them%20cook%20cheap%20nutritious%20meals%20budget\#contribution-854C5FFC-184E-4892-B699-CE4388513928)
    
- On 27 March 2022, The Trussell Trust charity said it had distributed over 2.1 million emergency food parcels to people in crisis in the past year, with growing numbers visiting food banks across the country as a result of the cost of living hikes.
    
    - `New figures released today reveal food banks in the Trussell Trust’s network provided more than 2.1 million parcels to people facing financial hardship across the country, from 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022. This represents a 14% increase compared to the same period in 2019/20 – before the pandemic – as more and more people are unable to afford the absolute essentials that we all need to eat, stay warm, dry and clean. This is the first time food banks in the Trussell Trust’s network have provided more than 2 million parcels, outside of 2020/21, at the height of the pandemic. Alarmingly, more than 830,000 parcels were provided for children, representing a 15% increase from 2019/20 when 720,000 were provided. The Trussell Trust says food banks in its network experienced their busiest winter outside of 2020 at the height of the pandemic, providing 1.2 million parcels in the second half of the year alone (from October to the end of March).` [link](https://www.trusselltrust.org/2022/04/27/food-banks-provide-more-than-2-1-million-food-parcels-to-people-across-the-uk-in-past-year-according-to-new-figures-released-by-the-trussell-trust/)
    