- The Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) is a trade agreement between Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, and Vietnam.
- On 1 February 2021, the UK formally applied to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP).
    - `We would now like to formalise our request to commence accession negotiations. I hope you will consider our request favourably and we stand ready to engage with you in order to establish a Working Group and to agree a timetable to negotiate the UK’s accession.` [link](https://www.gov.uk/government/news/formal-request-to-commence-uk-accession-negotiations-to-cptpp)
- On 29 March 2023, the UK was accepted into the CPTPP.
    - `Britain will be welcomed into an Indo-Pacific trade bloc late Thursday as ministers from the soon-to-be 12-nation trade pact meet in a virtual ceremony across multiple time zones.  
    -   
    - `Chief negotiators and senior officials from member countries agreed Wednesday that Britain has met the high bar to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), four people familiar with the talks told POLITICO.`
      
      `Negotiations are “done” and Britain’s accession is “all agreed [and] confirmed,” said a diplomat from one member nation. They were granted anonymity as they were unauthorized to discuss deliberations.`
    - [link](https://www.politico.eu/article/britain-secures-agreement-to-join-indo-pacific-trade-bloc/)
- A 2021 Department of International Trade White Paper found that the estimated percentage increase in domestic greenhouse gas is higher than the increase of GDP to the UK.
    - `While joining CPTPP11 is estimated to increase the UK’s domestic greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, it is estimated to reduce emissions intensity. GHG emissions are expected to increase by 0.025% over projected levels in 2035. This is less than the estimated percentage increase in GDP, which is 0.08%.` [link](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1027860/dit-cptpp-uk-accession-strategic-approach.pdf)q
- A 2021 House of Lords International Agreements Committee White Paper found that the goal of joining the CPTPP was not expected to bring large-scale economic benefits in the short term.
    - `DIT’s Scoping Assessment included in the Strategic Approach makes the economic case for accession. Yet the Government’s own modelling shows that joining CPTPP is expected to boost UK trade, GDP and wages for UK workers by only a modest amount in the long run (after c. 15 years), with the estimated percentage increase in GDP being 0.08%. This low figure factors in existing or planned bilateral free trade agreements with the majority of the members. Larger gains would, however, be realised from the potential expansion of the membership to include Thailand and South Korea. The table below compares the long-term economic impacts of accession with and without such expansion.` [link](https://committees.parliament.uk/publications/7859/documents/81612/default/)