- On 15 & 16 June 1940, under the auspices of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, The Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were extorted with having military bases on their territories, then later invaded and occupied by the Soviet Union.
    - `The independent functioning of the Baltic States was interrupted in June 1940 when, after the conclusion of the Treaty of Non-Aggression between Germany and the USSR of 23 August 1939 (Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact) and its Secret Additional Protocols, Soviet troops occupied the territories of the Baltic States.` - [State Continuity, Succession and Responsibility: Reparations to the Baltic States and their Peoples?, Ineta Ziemele, 2003](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1163/221158903x00072)
    - `The experience of the first year of Soviet occupation saw Russians replace Baltic Germans and Poles as the most feared and disliked minority in the region. The pattern of takeover was similar in all three states. The first Soviet occupation followed the 23 August 1939 signing of the secret protocols of the Molotov–Ribbentrop pact, which sliced Eastern Europe into two spheres of influence. Estonia, Latvia and eventually Lithuania fell into the Soviet sphere. The Soviet Union then claimed to be threatened by the Baltic states, demanded that ‘mutual assistance agreements’ be signed, and then moved troops and political advisors into the three states (25,000 each in Estonia and Latvia). This was followed in 1940 by Soviet claims that the terms of the treaties had been broken, leading to more troops crossing the borders, to the forced dismissal of the acting cabinets and to new, hand-picked Soviet governments. As Soviet officials took hold of the region, each Baltic state held visibly falsified elections, followed by the coming to power of Soviet-friendly puppet governments. In August 1940 the newly elected Baltic legislatures sent delegates to Moscow to successfully apply for membership in the Soviet Union.` - Comparative Politics and Government of the Baltic States: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the 21st Century, Daunis Auers, 2015
- On 3-6 August 1940, after planning an installation of a pro-soviet puppet government in the Baltic States and ultimatums from the Soviets to the Baltic States, The three countries were then annexed into the Soviet Union as constituent republics.
    - `More sinister intentions are, however, suggested by evidence from the archives of the former government of Latvia which have recently been opened to Latvian scholars. It now appears that as early as December 1939 the Soviets were hoping to be able to take control of Latvia by exploiting left-wing and bourgeois elements in a pretence of a popular front government. The model was the puppet government set up at Terijoki under the Finnish communist Otto Kuusinen on 30 November 1939, the day that the Red Army invaded Finland.` - The Baltic nations and Europe: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the twentieth century, John Hiden & Salmon Patrick, 1994
    - `On 18 July ‘demonstrators’ in the major cities of the Baltic states called for their incorporation in the Soviet Union: three days later all three parliaments declared their countries Soviet republics and applied for membership. The formal incorporation of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia followed between 3 and 6 August 1940.` - The Baltic nations and Europe: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the twentieth century, John Hiden & Salmon Patrick, 1994
- On 22 June 1941, following Operation Barbarossa, the Nazi Germany attacked the Soviet Union and within weeks occupied the Baltic territories and by July 1941, the Third Reich occupied the Baltic territory.
    - `In such circumstances it is not surprising that many members of the majority populations of the Baltic countries welcomed the German armed forces when they crossed the frontiers of Lithuania on 22 June 1941 and pressed on into Latvia and Estonia. Since signing the Nazi—Soviet pact the Third Reich had displayed a conspicuous lack of concern for the fate of the three republics. In the autumn of 1939 it initiated the evacuation of the Baltic German populations of Estonia and Latvia, thus bringing to an end 700 years of Baltic German history.` - The Baltic nations and Europe: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the twentieth century, John Hiden & Salmon Patrick, 1994
- On 5 August 1944, the Soviet Union recaptured most of the Baltic states and they, again, were reorganized into constituent republics of the USSR.
    - `By the end of 1944, the Balkans had been largely cleared of Germans and the Baltic states retaken` - World War II: A Student Companion (Oxford Student Companions to American History), William L. O'Neill, 1999
- The Baltic states themselves, the United States, the European Parliament and the European Court of Human Rights have all stated that these three countries were invaded, occupied and illegally incorporated into the Soviet Union under provisions of the [[1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact]].
    - Latvia - `The annexation of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is fundamentally illegal: it is based on intervention and occupation. That is why the annexation did not elicit juridical consequences. There was no change of sovereign power: the annexed state retained its sovereignty which the annexing state did not acquire. The status of the Baltic States as subjects of international law did not disappear. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania continued to exist de jure and their existence was recognized by 50 countries throughout the world. The non-recognition of the annexation was very important for the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian nations. It served as the basis for their unceasing demand for the restoration of the independence of their countries.` - [The Occupation of Latvia: Aspects of History and International Law, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Latvia](https://web.archive.org/web/20071123015238/http://www.am.gov.lv/en/latvia/history/occupation-aspects/)
    - Estonia - `On 22 September 1944, units of the Red Army captured Tallinn. Although it was a milestone on the road to Allied victory in Europe, the recapture of Tallinn by Soviet forces was far from being a "liberation" for the Estonian people. It merely marked a change in foreign regimes and the beginning of a nightmarishly repressive occupation that would last for nearly 50 more years. The occupation was never recognized by most Western countries. For Estonia, World War II only ended, de facto, on 31 August 1994, with the final withdrawal of former Soviet troops from Estonian soil.` - [22 September 1944: from one occupation to another, Estonian Embassy in Washington](https://web.archive.org/web/20080723194014/http://www.estemb.org/estonia/history/aid-775)
    - United States - `From Sumner Wells' declaration of July 23, 1940, that we would not recognize the occupation. We housed the exiled Baltic diplomatic delegations. We accredited their diplomats. We flew their flags in the State Department's Hall of Flags. We never recognized in deed or word or symbol the illegal occupation of their lands.` - [U.S.-Baltic Relations: Celebrating 85 Years of Friendship, U.S. Department of State, 2007](https://web.archive.org/web/20120819185542/http://merln.ndu.edu/archivepdf/EUR/State/86539.pdf)
    - European Parliament - `In the Spring of 1990, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia declared their independence. By the end of the year, all the Republics of the Soviet Union had followed their example. Although the Member States of the Community, along with the majority of Western states, have always refused to recognize the annexation of the Baltic states, they reacted with great caution to the heightening of tension with the central authorities. In the first phase, the Twelve limited themselves to inviting the Soviet authorities to refrain from any act of intimidation, inconformity with Soviet commitments under the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter of Paris. They were also urged to open negotiations with elected representatives of the Baltic Republics ‘in order to meet, through a peaceful solution, the legitimate aspirations of the Baltic peoples’. A similar invitation was made in a letter from the President of the Council, Luxembourg Foreign Minister Poos, to Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze to condemn the use of force by Soviet troops in Vilnius.` - [European Political Cooperation in 1991, Renaud Dehousse, 1993](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1093/oxfordjournals.ejil.a035821)
    - European Court of Human Rights - `The Court notes, first, that Estonia lost its independence as a result of the Treaty of Non-Aggression between Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (also known as "Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact"), concluded on 23 August 1939, and the secret additional protocols to it. Following an ultimatum to set up Soviet military bases in Estonia in 1939, a large-scale entry of the Soviet army into Estonia took place in June 1940. The lawful government of the country was overthrown and Soviet rule was imposed by force. The totalitarian communist regime of the Soviet Union conducted large-scale and systematic actions against the Estonian population, including, for example, the deportation of about 10,000 persons on 14 June 1941 and of more than 20,000 on 25 March 1949. After the Second World War, tens of thousands of persons went into hiding in the forests to avoid repression by the Soviet authorities; part of those in hiding actively resisted the occupation regime. According to the data of the security organs, about 1,500 persons were killed and almost 10,000 arrested in the course of the resistance movement of 1944–1953. Interrupted by the German occupation in 1941–1944, Estonia remained occupied by the Soviet Union until its restoration of independence in 1991. Accordingly, Estonia as a state was temporarily prevented from fulfilling its international commitments.` - [Kolk and Kislyiy V. Estonia, European Court of Human Rights, 2006](https://www.stradalex.com/fr/sl_src_publ_jur_int/document/echr_23052-04_001-72404)
- The Baltic states recovered de facto independence during the Dissolution of the Soviet Union.