- On 30 July 1941, The Sikorski–Mayski agreement was a treaty between the Soviet Union and Poland that was signed in London. Its name is taken from its two most notable signatories: the prime minister of Poland, Władysław Sikorski, and the Soviet ambassador to the United Kingdom, Ivan Mayski.
- Stalin agreed to declare all previous pacts that he had with Nazi Germany null and void, to invalidate the September 1939 partition of Poland and to release tens of thousands of Polish prisoners-of-war held in Soviet camps. Pursuant to an agreement between the Polish government-in-exile and Stalin, the Soviets granted "amnesty" to many Polish citizens on 12 August 1941.
    - `1. The Government of the U.S.S.R. recognizes the Soviet-German treaties of 1939 as to territorial changes in Poland as having lost their validity. The Polish Government declares Poland is not bound by any agreement with any third power which is directed against the U.S.S.R.`
      
      `2. Diplomatic relations will be restored between the two governments upon the signing of this agreement, and an immediate exchange of Ambassadors will be arranged. The two governments mutually agree to render one to another aid and support of all kinds in the present war against Hitlerite Germany.`
      
      `3. The Government of the U.S.S.R. expresses its consent to the formation on territory of the U.S.S.R. of a Polish Army under a commander appointed by the Polish Government in agreement with the Soviet Government, the Polish Army on territory of the U.S.S.R. being subordinated in an operational sense to the Supreme Command of the U.S.S.R., in which the Polish Army will be represented. All details as to command, organization and employment of this force will be settled in a subsequent agreement.`
      
      `4. This agreement will come into force immediately upon signature and without ratification. The present agreement is drawn up in two copies, in the Russian and Polish languages. Both texts have equal force.`
      
      `The Soviet Government grants amnesty to all Polish citizens now detained on Soviet territory either as prisoners of war or on other sufficient grounds, as from the resumption of diplomatic relations.` - Poland in the Second World War, Józef Garliński, 1985
- The Soviets broke off talks again in 1943 after the Polish government had demanded an independent examination of the recently discovered mass graves apart of the [[1940 Katyn Massacre]] by the International Red Cross.
    - `Mr. Ambassador!`
      
      `On instruction of the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, I have the honour to inform the Polish Government of the following:`
      
      `The Soviet Government consider the recent behaviour of the Polish Government with regard to the USSR as entirely abnormal, infringing all the rules and norms of mutual relations between two allied states.`
      
      `Hostile to the Soviet Union, calumnious campaign launched by the German fascists in connection with the murder of the Polish officers, committed by themselves on the territory occupied by German armies in the Smolensk area, was taken up instantly by the Polish Government and is being fanned by every possible means by the Polish official press. The Polish Government not only failed to offer a rebuff to the vile fascist calumny, it did not even find it necessary to address an inquiry to the Soviet Government, or request for an explanation on this subject.`
      
      `The Hitlerite authorities, having committed a monstrous crime on Polish officers, are now staging a farcical investigation, in which they use Polish pro-fascist elements, whom they themselves selected in occupied Poland, where everybody is under Hitler's heel and where an honest Pole can not openly have his say.`
      
      `Both, the Polish Government and the Hitlerite government drew into the "investigation" the International Red Cross, compelled to participate in this farce of investigation in which Hitler appears to be the stage manager, in conditions of a terroristic regime with its gallows and mass extermination of the peaceful population. Understandably, such an "investigation", conducted behind the back of the Soviet Government, can not command confidence of people, possessing any degree of honesty.` - [Soviet Note of April 25, 1943, severing unilaterally Soviet-Polish diplomatic relations.](https://web.archive.org/web/20050909042329/http://www.electronicmuseum.ca/Poland-WW2/katyn_memorial_wall/kmw_note.html)