### 1998 UNSC Resolution 1160
- On 31 March 1998, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1160.
    - `1. Calls upon the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia immediately to take the further necessary steps to achieve a political solution to the issue of Kosovo through dialogue and to implement the actions indicated in the Contact Group statements of 9 and 25 March 1998;  
          
        2. Calls also upon the Kosovar Albanian leadership to condemn all terrorist action, and emphasizes that all elements in the Kosovar Albanian community should pursue their goals by peaceful means only;  
          
        3. Underlines that the way to defeat violence and terrorism in Kosovo is for the authorities in Belgrade to offer the Kosovar Albanian community a genuine political process;  
          
        4. Calls upon the authorities in Belgrade and the leadership of the Kosovar Albanian community urgently to enter without preconditions into a meaningful dialogue on political status issues, and notes the readiness of the Contact Group to facilitate such a dialogue;  
          
        5. Agrees, without prejudging the outcome of that dialogue, with the proposal in the Contact Group statements of 9 and 25 March 1998 that the principles for a solution of the Kosovo problem should be based on the territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and should be in accordance with OSCE standards, including those set out in the Helsinki Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe of 1975, and the Charter of the United Nations, and that such a solution must also take into account the rights of the Kosovar Albanians and all who live in Kosovo, and expresses its support for an enhanced status for Kosovo which would include a substantially greater degree of autonomy and meaningful self-administration;`  
        [link](https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/252117?ln=en)
- On 15 May 1998, U.S. diplomacy meeting (Milosevic-Rugova meeting) in Belgrave, EU ditches proposal to stop new investment in Serbia, In the same week: Belgrade launches a major offensive along the border with Albania (against international law)
    - `Pressed by the Americans, Mr. Milosevic met Mr. Rugova on May 15 with the United States Ambassador to Macedonia, Christopher Hill. In return for Mr. Milosevic's compliance, Washington pressed the Europeans to suspend the introduction of tough economic sanctions against Mr. Milosevic, including a ban on foreign investment in Serbia.` [[clintonmeets]]
    - `The government offensive, which continued unabated despite the deployment of KDOM, was an apparent attempt to crush civilian support for the rebels. Government forces attacked civilians, systematically destroyed towns, and forced thousands of people to flee their homes. The police were repeatedly seen looting homes, destroying already abandoned villages, burning crops, and killing farm animals, as well as committing summary executions, all violations of the rules of war. The majority of those killed and injured were civilians. At least 250,000 people were displaced between May and September 1998, according to UNHCR, many of them women and children. The border region with Albania was particularly hard hit, but so were other areas of KLA activity, such as Drenica and the area around Orahovac.` [link](https://www.refworld.org/pdfid/3c2b204a0.pdf)