### 1999 Rambouillet Agreement
- [link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rambouillet_Agreement)
- The Rambouillet Agreement, formally the Interim Agreement for Peace and Self-Government in Kosovo, was a proposed peace agreement between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and a delegation representing the ethnic Albanian majority population of Kosovo.
- On 18 March 1999, the Albanian, American and British delegation signed the Rambouillet Accords while the Serbian and Russian delegations refused.
    - `1. All citizens in Kosovo shall enjoy, without discrimination, the equal rights and freedoms set forth in this Agreement.  
        2. National communities and their members shall have additional rights specified in Chapter 1. Kosovo, Federal, and Republic authorities shall not interfere with the exercise of these additional rights. The national communities shall be legally equal as specified herein, and shall not use their additional rights to endanger the rights of other national communities or the rights of citizens, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or the functioning of representative democratic government in Kosovo.  
        3. All authorities in Kosovo shall fully respect human rights, democracy, and the equality of citizens and national communities.  
        4. Citizens in Kosovo shall have the right to democratic self-government through legislative, executive, judicial, and other institutions established in accordance with this Agreement. They shall have the opportunity to be represented in all institutions in Kosovo. The right to democratic self-government shall include the right to participate in free and fair elections.  
        5. Every person in Kosovo may have access to international institutions for the protection of their rights in accordance with the procedures of such institutions.  
        6. The Parties accept that they will act only within their powers and responsibilities in Kosovo as specified by this Agreement. Acts outside those powers and responsibilities shall be null and void. Kosovo shall have all rights and powers set forth herein, including in particular as specified in the Constitution at Chapter 1. This Agreement shall prevail over any other legal provisions of the Parties and shall be directly applicable. The Parties shall harmonize their governing practices and documents with this Agreement.  
        7. The Parties agree to cooperate fully with all international organizations working in Kosovo on the implementation of this Agreement.`  
        [link](https://1997-2001.state.gov/regions/eur/)
- `According to the FCO, the Rambouillet negotiations "would define the terms of an agreement which would provide for a cease-fire, a peace settlement and the deployment of an international peacekeeping force within Kosovo to uphold that settlement." As we discussed above, both parties attended Rambouillet under NATO's threat of "whatever measures were necessary to avert a humanitarian catastrophe." The threat was nominally addressed to both sides. In practice, given the international sympathy for the Kosovo Albanian population, who were suffering greater atrocities than the Serb population (and KLA attacks were mostly focussed on Serb policemen, while Serb action often focussed on unarmed civilians) the Rambouillet package was always likely, overall, to be more favourable to the Albanians than the Serbs. The Serbs could be threatened, while on the whole, the Kosovo Albanians could only be bribed.` [link](https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm199900/cmselect/cmfaff/28/2809.htm\#n112)