## 1947-49 Nakba
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nakba)
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1948_Palestinian_expulsion_and_flight)
- On
- The [[1948 Deir Yassin Massacre]]] was pointed to as one of the primary factors for the Palestinian exodus.
    - `The IZL commanders, then and later, may have had an interest in exaggerating the impact of Deir Yassin. But they weren’t far off the mark. HIS officers around the country immediately reported on the fear- and flight-sowing impact of Deir Yassin. Ben-Gurion himself noted—probably not unhappily—that Deir Yassin had propelled flight from Haifa. British intelligence commented that “the violence used [at Deir Yassin] so impressed Arabs all over the country that an attack by [the] Haganah on [the Arab village of] Saris met with no opposition whatsoever.” Mapam’s leaders later assessed that Deir Yassin had been one of the two pivotal events (the other was the fall of Arab Haifa) in the exodus of Palestine’s Arabs. The HIS-AD, in summarizing the Arab flight to the end of June 1948, pointed to Deir Yassin as a “decisive accelerating factor.”`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
- The Zionist seemed hesitant to violate the UN Partition Plan and engage in methods to encourage Arabs to leave Palestine in fear of equal or worse retaliation, going so far as to try and discover the reason why many Arabs were leaving.
    - `The Zionist leadership initially was chary about violating the UN partition borders, lest this bolster the Arabs’ more general desire to overturn the resolution or give offense to the international community. The Zionist shift from unreserved adherence to the UN borders to expansionism was slow and hesitant. The pan-Arab invasion of mid-May ended the hesitancy: if the Arabs were defying the United Nations and were bent on destroying the Jewish state, the Jews would take what was needed for survival, and perhaps a little more. As Moshe Shertok put it on 16 June 1948: “It is clear that it would be good if we could achieve two things: (A) Not to give up an inch of the land within the borders of 29 November [1947].... (B) To add to this territory those areas we have captured and not out of a desire merely to expand, but under pressure of bitter necessity. That is, those areas that bitter experience has taught us that we must dominate in order to provide the state with protection ... (Western Galilee, the road to Jerusalem and Jerusalem itself ).”`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)