# 2017 US-Saudi Arms Deal
- On 20 May 2017, Trump sealed a weapons deal with Saudi Arabia worth $350 billion over 10 years, $110 billion of which took effect immediately [[ussaudiarabiasealweaponsdealworthne]]
- During 2018, Trump made several assertions of how many American jobs the deal would create, including as many as 1,000,000. The Washington Post Wrote `We’ve learned over time that the president does not pay much attention to details. So while he keeps increasing the number of jobs that he says would result from this deal, he might be surprised to learn what the official White House statement said when the deal was signed: “This package demonstrates the United States’ commitment to our partnership with Saudi Arabia, while also expanding opportunities for American companies in the region, potentially supporting tens of thousands of new jobs in the United States.” “Tens of thousands” is much, much lower than 600,000. Even that might be a stretch, though note that the statement uses the phrase “potentially supporting,” rather than “creating,” jobs. That means the White House could have been counting not just new factory workers but also secondary jobs resulting from the “feedback” of employed defense workers. (In theory, each dollar spent by a newly employed person reverberates through the economy, creating jobs for dentists, librarians, bread bakers, farmers, bartenders and so forth.)` [link](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/10/22/trumps-claim-jobs-saudi-deals-grows-by-leaps-bounds/)
- According to a confidential 2017 document of all of the military sales agreements reviewed by The Fact Checker, most of the items on Trump’s $110 billion list did not have delivery dates or were scheduled for 2022 or beyond. There appeared to be few, if any, signed contracts. Rather, many of the announcements were MOIs — memorandums of intent. There were six specific items, adding up to $28 billion, but all had been previously notified to Congress by the Obama administration. [link](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/10/11/trumps-billion-arms-sales-saudi-arabia-still-fake/)
- Trump vetoed a bipartisan bill that would have ended American involvement in the Yemeni Civil War. `Trump vetoed a bipartisan resolution on Tuesday that would have forced an end to American military involvement in Saudi Arabia’s civil war in Yemen, rejecting an appeal by lawmakers to his own deeply rooted instincts to withdraw the United States from bloody foreign conflicts.` [link](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/16/us/politics/trump-veto-yemen.html)