# 2018 Assassination of Jamal Khashoggi
- On 2 October 2018, Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi dissident, journalist, columnist for The Washington Post, former editor of Al-Watan and former general manager and editor-in-chief of the Al-Arab News Channel, was assassinated by agents of the Saudi government at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Turkey.
- Timeline of events, [[thek]]
    - `October 2: Khashoggi was last seen on security camera footage entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on the afternoon of Oct. 2, where he was picking up documents that would allow him to marry his Turkish fiancee.`
    - `October 6: Saudi Arabia’s consul general says that “talk of his kidnapping was baseless,” according to Reuters. On October 8, the crown prince’s brother and Saudi ambassador to Washington Khalid bin Salman reiterated those words to Axios.`
    - `October 10: Turkish authorities release photographs of a 15-member Saudi “hit squad” which included several security officials known to be close to the crown prince. Turkish officials said that within two hours of entering the consulate, Khashoggi was killed by the Saudi agents, who dismembered his body using a bone saw. Local media reveals that the government has audio recordings of Khashoggi’s killing in the consulate.`
        - `Turkish officials have said they possess evidence that the 15 Saudi agents flew into Istanbul on Oct. 2, assassinated Mr. Khashoggi, dismembered his body with a bone saw they had brought for the purpose, and flew out the same day. Records show that two private jets chartered by a Saudi company with close ties to the Saudi crown prince and Interior Ministry arrived and left Istanbul on the day of Mr. Khashoggi’s disappearance. Turkish officials said Mr. Khashoggi was killed within two hours of his arrival at the consulate. That timeline would not have allowed much time for an interrogation to go awry.` [link](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/16/world/middleeast/khashoggi-saudi-prince.html)
        - `Turkish officials and investigations by The New York Times have found that Mr. Khashoggi’s killing was the result of a complex operation that involved at least 15 agents who flew into Turkey specifically for the job, many of them closely connected to Prince Mohammed. They included intelligence agents who had travelled with the crown prince, a physician who specialized in autopsies and brought a bone saw, and a body double who donned Mr. Khashoggi’s clothes and walked around Istanbul seeking to leave a false trail of evidence that he was still alive.` [[]]
    - `October 10: A bipartisan group of more than 20 senators pens a letter to the White House triggering the Global Magnitsky Act, which is designed to penalize governments for human rights abuses. This gives the administration four months to carry out an investigation and determine whether abuses occurred. Numerous individual lawmakers from both parties call for sanctions on Saudi Arabia and a halt in arms sales to the kingdom.`
    - `October 12: A Saudi delegation arrives in Turkish capital Ankara for an investigation into the disappearance.`
    - `October 15: Nearly two weeks after Khashoggi went missing, Turkish investigative teams are allowed to begin searching the Saudi consulate.`
    - `October 16: Trump speaks via phone with Crown Prince Mohammed, and tells media the crown prince “totally denied” any knowledge of Khashoggi’s fate.`
    - `October 19: Major General Ahmed al-Asiri, the Saudi deputy intelligence chief and one of bin Salman’s closest aides, is sacked. Saudi officials later named Al-Asiri as having ordered Khashoggi’s repatriation to the kingdom. Saud al Qahtani, the prince’s top aide, is also removed from his position.`
    - `October 21: A Saudi official tells Reuters that Khashoggi died in a “chokehold” after 15 Saudi operatives, which government authorities said were meant to simply detain Khashoggi and take him to Saudi Arabia for questioning, overstepped their orders.`
    - `October 23: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announces that Khashoggi’s killing was premeditated and planned at the “highest levels” of the Saudi government, but stops short of directly naming the crown prince.`
    - `October 25: Saudi Arabia’s public prosecutor describes the murder as “premeditated,” reversing earlier statements that the death was an accident.`
    - `November 10: Erdogan says Turkey has given audio recordings taken before and during Khashoggi’s murder to the intelligence agencies of Saudi Arabia, the U.S., the U.K., Germany and France. Saudi Arabia tells the UN that the Khashoggi killers will face justice.`
        - `“We gave the tapes. We gave them to Saudi Arabia, to the United States, Germans, French and British, all of them. They have listened to all the conversations in them. They know,” Erdogan said.` [link](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-saudi-khashoggi-turkey/turkey-gave-khashoggi-tapes-to-european-nations-erdogan-says-idUSKCN1NF0EQ)
    - `November 15: Saudi Arabia’s deputy public prosecutor announces the kingdom will seek the death penalty for five out of the 11 people charged in the murder. He simultaneously exonerates the crown prince of any involvement.`
    - `November 16: The Washington Post reports that CIA assessments have concluded the Saudi crown prince ordered Khashoggi’s killing, citing a source with access to the intelligence. NBC News and the New York Times later confirmed the reports, while the CIA declined to comment.`
    - `November 19: Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir calls the reported CIA assessment false, telling local media: “We in the kingdom know that such allegations about the crown prince have no basis in truth and we categorically reject them.”`
    - `November 21: In an interview with CNBC, Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al Jubeir avidly rejects the CIA assessment and suggestions that the royal family’s line of succession may be changed to prevent the crown prince becoming king. He calls the reports of potential regime change “outrageous” and “totally unacceptable.”`
- On 30 September 2019, Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman denied any personal involvement in the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi but took full responsibility as the country's leader during a CBS "60 Minutes" interview that aired Sunday night.
    - `Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman (Translation): Absolutely not. This was a heinous crime. But I take full responsibility as a leader in Saudi Arabia, especially since it was committed by individuals working for the Saudi government.  
          
        Norah O'Donnell: What does that mean that you take responsibility?  
          
        Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman (Translation): When a crime is committed against a Saudi citizen by officials, working for the Saudi government, as a leader I must take responsibility. This was a mistake. And I must take all actions to avoid such a thing in the future.`  
        [link](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/mohammad-bin-salman-denies-ordering-khashoggi-murder-but-says-he-takes-responsibility-for-it-60-minutes-2019-09-29/)
- On 4 October 2019, a United Nations Human Rights Council report on `Annex to the Report of the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions: Investigation into the unlawful death of Mr. Jamal Khashoggi` found that, [link](https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/HRBodies/HRC/RegularSessions/Session41/Documents/A_HRC_41_CRP.1.pdf)
    - `Mr. Khashoggi’s killing constituted an extrajudicial killing for which the State of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is responsible. His attempted kidnapping would also constitute a violation under international human rights law.`
    - `The killing of Mr. Khashoggi further constituted a violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (thereafter VCCR) and of the prohibition against the extra-territorial use of force in time of peace (customary law and UN Charter). In killing a journalist, the State of Saudi Arabia also committed an act inconsistent with a core tenet of the United Nations, the protection of freedom of expression. As such, it can be credibly argued that it used force extra-territorially in a manner “inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations.”`
    - `Further, the circumstances of the killing of Mr. Khashoggi may constitute an act of torture under the terms of the Convention Against Torture, ratified by Saudi Arabia`
    - `The Special Rapporteur has determined that there is credible evidence, warranting further investigation of high-level Saudi Officials’ individual liability, including the Crown Prince’s.`
    - `The Special Rapporteur has found that both the investigations conducted by Saudi Arabia and Turkey failed to meet international standards regarding the investigation into unlawful deaths.`
    - `On the basis of credible information at her disposal, the Special Rapporteur has concluded that there is insufficient evidence to suggest that either Turkey or the United States knew, or ought to have known, of a real and imminent or foreseeable threat to Mr. Khashoggi’s life. There was credible evidence to suggest that, had Mr. Khashoggi returned to Saudi Arabia, or been lured there, he would have been detained, possibly disappeared, and harmed. These risks were not linked to his life or presence in his countries of residence, namely the US or Turkey. She did not secure credible evidence that US authorities had intercepted the Saudi Crown prince’s communications or that such intercepts had been assessed before the time of the killing of Mr. Khashoggi.`
    - `This report has shown that the execution of Mr. Khashoggi constituted a violation of his right to life for which the State of Saudi Arabia is responsible. This violation has been compounded by Saudi Arabia’s failure to effectively investigate the execution and fairly prosecute those responsible.`
    - `This report has also demonstrated that the execution of Mr. Kashoggi in the Saudi consulate located on the Turkish territory violated two core rules of the international system: the prohibition on extraterritorial use of force and the requirement that states use consular missions for official purposes.`
- A 2021 report from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence found that, [link](https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/Assessment-Saudi-Gov-Role-in-JK-Death-20210226v2.pdf)
    - `We assess that Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman approved an operation in Istanbul, Turkey to capture or kill Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.`
    - `We base this assessment on the Crown Prince's control of decision making in the Kingdom, the direct involvement of a key adviser and members of Muhammad bin Salman's protective detail in the operation, and the Crown Prince's support for using violent measures to silence dissidents abroad, including Khashoggi.`
    - `Since 2017, the Crown Prince has had absolute control of the Kingdom's security and intelligence organizations, making it highly unlikely that Saudi officials would have carried out an operation of this nature without the Crown Prince's authorization.`
    - `At the time of the Khashoggi murder, the Crown Prince probably fostered an environment in which aides were afraid that failure to complete assigned tasks might result in him firing or arresting them. This suggests that the aides were unlikely to question Muhammad bin Salman's orders or undertake sensitive actions without his consent.`
    - `The IS-member Saudi team that arrived in Istanbul on 2 October 2018 included officials who worked for, or were associated with, the Saudi Center for Studies and Media Affairs (CSMARC) at the Royal Court. At the time of the operation, CSMARC was led bymiddl Saud al-Qahtani, a close adviser of Muhammad bin Salman, who claimed publicly in mid-2018 that he did not make decisions without the Crown Prince's approval.`
    - `The team also included seven members of Muhammad bin Salman's elite personal protective detail, known as the Rapid Intervention Force (RIF). The RIF-a subset of the Saudi Royal Guard-exists to defend the Crown Prince, answers only to him, and had directly participated in earlier dissident suppression operations in the Kingdom and abroad at the Crown Prince's direction. We judge that members of the RIF would not have participated in the operation against Khashoggi without Muhammad bin Salman's approval.`
    - `The Crown Prince viewed Khashoggi as a threat to the Kingdom and broadly supported using violent measures if necessary to silence him. Although Saudi officials had pre-planned an unspecified operation against Khashoggi we do not know how far in advance Saudi officials decided to harm him.`