## 1950-53 Korean War
- On 25 June 1950 to 27 July 1953, The Korean War began when North Korea invaded South Korea following clashes along the border and rebellions in South Korea.
- The United Nations Security Council denounced the North Korean move as an invasion and authorized the formation of the United Nations Command and the dispatch of forces to Korea to repel it. The United Nations Command operates under the mandates of UN Security Council Resolutions 82, 83, and 84.
    - UNSC resolution 82 `Calls upon all Member States to render every assistance to the United Nations in the execution of this resolution and to refrain from giving assistance To the North Korean authorities.` [link](https://undocs.org/Home/Mobile?FinalSymbol=S%2FRES%2F82(1950)&Language=E&DeviceType=Desktop&LangRequested=False)
    - UNSC resolution 83 `Having noted the appeal from the Republic of Korea to the United Nations for immediate and effective steps to secure peace and security, Recommends that the Members of the United Nations furnish such assistance to the Republic of Korea as may be necessary to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security in the area.` [link](https://undocs.org/Home/Mobile?FinalSymbol=S%2FRES%2F83(1950)&Language=E&DeviceType=Desktop&LangRequested=False)
    - UNSC resolution 84 `Having determined that the armed attack upon the Republic of Korea by forces from North Korea constitutes a breach of the peace, Having recommended that Members of the United Nations furnish such assistance to the Republic of Korea as may be necessary to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security in the area` [link](https://undocs.org/Home/Mobile?FinalSymbol=S%2FRES%2F83(1950)&Language=E&DeviceType=Desktop&LangRequested=False)
- These only passed because the Soviet Union was boycotting the UN for giving China's seat in the Security council to Taiwan, and because Taiwan had China's seat in the Security Council.
    - `A major watershed in Soviet UN policy occurred in January 1950, when Soviet representatives boycotted UN functions in support of the seating of China as a permanent member of the Security Council. In the absence of the Soviet representatives, the UN Security Council was able to vote for the intervention of UN military forces in what would become the Korean War.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebzsacyrd43t4yxmmyiajmpos5fijr3xnjo7vrjxzt5pxokzbx626?filename=Zickel%20Raymond%20E.%20%28Ed.%29%20-%20Soviet%20Union_%20A%20Country%20Study.pdf)
- Kim Il-sung believed that widespread uprisings had weakened the South Korean military and that a North Korean invasion would be welcomed by much of the South Korean population. Kim began seeking Stalin's support for an invasion in March 1949, traveling to Moscow to attempt to persuade him.
    - Kim Il Sung: Comrade Stalin, we believe that the situation makes it necessary and possible to liberate the whole country through military means. The reactionary forces of the South will never agree on a peaceful unification and will perpetuate the division of the country until they feel themselves strong enough to attack the North. Now is the best opportunity for us to take the initiative into our  
        own hands. Our armed forces are stronger, and in addition we have the support of a powerful guerrilla movement in the South. The population of the South, which despises the pro-American regime, will certainly help us as well.  
        
    - Stalin: You should not advance to the South. First of all, the Korean People’s Army does not have an overwhelming superiority over the troops of the South. Numerically, as I understand, you are even behind  
        them. Second, there are still American troops in the South that will interfere in case of hostilities. Third, one should not forget that the agreement on the 38th parallel is in effect between the USSR and the United States. If the agreement is broken by our side, it is more of a reason to believe that Americans will interfere.  
        
    - Kim Il Sung: Does it mean that there is no chance to reunify Korea in the near future? Our people are very anxious to be together again to cast off the yoke of the reactionary regime and their American masters.
    - Stalin: If the adversary has aggressive intentions, then sooner or later it will start the aggression. In response to the attack you will have a good opportunity to launch a counterattack. Then your move will be understood and supported by everyone. [link](https://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/media/documents/publication/ACFAEF.pdf)
- Stalin had final decision power and several times demanded North Korea postpone the invasion, until Stalin and Mao both gave their final approval in spring 1950.
    - `the many telegrams that Moscow and Pyongyang exchanged from January to June 1950, and, more important, the secret meetings between Stalin and Kim [Il Sung] in Moscow in April and Mao and Kim in Beijing during May, confirmed that the three Communist leaders were responsible for starting the Korean War on the morning of June 25, 1950.` [link](https://sci-hub.ee/10.1163/18765610-02102010)
- `Various encyclopedias state that the countries involved in the three-year conflict suffered a total of more than 4 million casualties, of which at least 2 million were civilians—a higher percentage than in World War II or Vietnam. A total of 36,940 Americans lost their lives in the Korean theater; of these, 33,665 were killed in action, while 3,275 died there of non-hostile causes. Some 92,134 Americans were wounded in action, and decades later, 8,176 were still reported as missing. South Korea sustained 1,312,836 casualties, including 415,004 dead. Casualties among other UN allies totaled 16,532, including 3,094 dead. Estimated North Korean casualties numbered 2 million, including about one million civilians and 520,000 soldiers. An estimated 900,000 Chinese soldiers lost their lives in combat.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceaaobxm5dohpomewcwc57evvcnvqo7624amtv2pdtpzg2a5ukut3o?filename=%20-%20The%20Korean%20War%20A%20History-Modern%20Library%20%282010%29.pdf)
- North Korea gains the city of Kaesong, but loses a net total of 1,500 square miles, including the city of Sokcho, to South Korea.
    - `From the Communist viewpoint, the war likewise brought mixed results. Not only had the North Koreans failed to conquer the South, but they had actually suffered a net loss of 1,500 square miles of territory as the price of their aggression.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacecdmfqldrigqzq57nb2kpanrk3ijkmeqp3gh6eva4xu3lvp4tmsao?filename=Birtle%2C%20Andrew%20James%20-%20The%20Korean%20War%20_%20years%20of%20stalemate%2C%20July%201951-July%201953-U.S.%20Army%20Center%20for%20Military%20History%20%282000%29.pdf)
- The fighting ended on 27 July 1953 when the Korean Armistice Agreement was signed. [link](https://s3.amazonaws.com/NARAprodstorage/lz/rediscovery/02926_2003.pdf) The agreement created the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) to separate North and South Korea, and allowed the return of prisoners. However, no peace treaty was ever signed, and the two Koreas are technically still at war, engaged in a frozen conflict.
    - `An armistice terminated the Korean War between North Korea and the United States in 1953. Technically, North Korea is still at war with the United States because no peace treaty has been signed between the two former enemies.` [link](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacecvni2yvpeoopgbc5hgqowzgb3okcqhij3gq4ou43ynn47rvpqoju?filename=Kai%20He%2C%20Huiyun%20Feng%20-%20Prospect%20Theory%20and%20Foreign%20Policy%20Analysis%20in%20the%20Asia%20Pacific_%20Rational%20Leaders%20and%20Risky%20Behavior-Routledge%20%282012%29.pdf)