- On 4-7 April 1920, The 1920 Nebi Musa riots or 1920 Jerusalem riots took place in British-controlled part of Occupied Enemy Territory Administration, pre-Mandate Palestine in and around the Old City of Jerusalem. Five Jews and four Arabs were killed, and several hundred were injured. The riots coincided with and are named after the Nebi Musa festival, which was held every year on Easter Sunday, and followed rising tensions in Arab-Jewish relations.
- The trigger for the starting of the riot is not known due to available sources not clarifying the exact trigger.
    - `While the first half of the procession was passing through the Jaffa Gate, the riot began between Christaki’s pharmacy and the Credit Lyonnais. Available sources do not clarify the exact trigger, and it is arguable that more than one event functioned as a catalyst. In the vicinity of the Arab rally, some Zionists were listening to the speeches. It is likely some belonged to the self-defence force organized by Vladimir Jabotinsky, by this time already enlisting six hundred troops performing military drills on a daily basis. Already in early March, Jabotinsky was working to inflame the atmosphere, and he began to publicly predict a pogrom. Some evidence suggests that these Jewish spectators were quite provocative. Allegedly, a Jew pushed an Arab carrying a nationalist flag, and he tried to spit on the banner and on the Arab crowd. According to testimony gathered by the French consul, some young Jews standing near Jaffa Gate attacked some Arabs after the speech delivered by Muhammed Darwish of the Arab Club (one of the Christian–Muslim associations). All of these reports suggest only Jewish provocation; however, it is possible, though unreported, that Arab activities also triggered the riots` - [Urban Violence in the Middle East, Ulrike Freitag, Nelida Fuccaro, Claudia Ghrawi, Nora Laf](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebaaxtpwifde4o6htzs6w2pavgdxfx5uf4audruajj3xtkgezergs?filename=%28Space%20and%20Place_%2014%29%20Ulrike%20Freitag%20%28editor%29_%20Nelida%20Fuccaro%20%28editor%29_%20Claudia%20Ghrawi%20%28editor%29_%20Nora%20Lafi%20%28editor%29%20-%20Urban%20Violence%20in%20the%20Middle%20East_%20Changing%20Cityscapes%20in%20the%20Transition%20from%20Empi.pdf)
- The Nebi Musa festival featured speeches from Arab speakers that demonised and vilified Jews in the Mandate Palestine region.
    - `In the first days of April, Arabs from the surrounding countryside poured into Jerusalem's Old City for the week-long Nabi Musa and Esther celebrations, which fell at the same time as Passover. On the morning of April 4 a procession of nearly six hundred pilgrims from Hebron, a town known for its Muslim orthodoxy, entered the city. There were cheers for "King" Faisal and Arab independence; Jerusalem mayor Musa Kazim al-Husseini swore the gathered crowd to spill their blood for Palestine. 'Arif al-'Arif, the editor of Suriyya al-Janubiyya, declared: "If we don't use force against the Zionists and against the Jews, we will never be rid of them." And the crowd chanted "Nashrab dam al-Yahud"—we will drink the blood of the Jews.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- It wasn’t just Muslims demonising, but Christians too.
    - `The rally had a joint Muslim-Christian tone and composition. One placard read: "Shall we give back the country to a people who crucified our Lord Jesus?" As the demonstration drew to a close, the head of the Hebronite pilgrims shouted, "Itbah al-Yahud"—and violence erupted. The crowd went on a rampage, moving toward West Jerusalem; Jews on Jaffa Street were stoned and Jewish shops looted. Khalil al-Sakakini, a Christian Arab educator and diarist, described what he saw:
      
      `[A] riot broke out, the people began to run about and stones were thrown at the Jews. The shops were closed and there were screams.... I saw a Zionist [that is, Jewish British] soldier covered in dust and blood.... Afterwards, I saw one Hebronite approach a Jewish shoeshine boy, who hid behind a sack in one of the [Old City] wall's comers next to Jaffa Gate, and take his box and beat him [the shoeshine boy] over the head. He screamed and began to run, his head bleeding and the Hebronite left him and returned to the procession.... The riot reached its zenith. All shouted, "Muhammad's religion was born with the sword" ... I immediately walked to the municipal garden... my soul is nauseated and depressed by the madness of humankind.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf) 
- Arab Police seemed to be complicit in the violence towards the Jews rather than protecting harmed civilians.
    - `Most of the violence took place west of the Old City walls, along Jaffa Road. Arab policemen joined the mob, which, according to Sakakini, tried to stab a British policeman. A British military pilot, on the scene by chance, tried to stop the violence and was clubbed to death. The riotous procession then abruptly turned back from Jaffa Street into the Old City, and the excited pilgrims turned on Jewish shops and pedestrians, brandishing clubs, knives, and stones. The Arab police contingent responsible for the Old City either looked on passively or joined in the mayhem.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- Deaths totalled 9 including 5 Jews & 4 Arabs and casualties totalled 211 Jews, 18 Arabs & 7 Britons
    - `The reported casualties amounted to 251, of whom nine Jews and twenty-two Arabs were critically wounded. Five Jews and four Muslims had been killed; 211 Jews were reported wounded, as opposed to twenty-one Muslims and three Christians. Seven British soldiers were also injured; however, it appears that the police were never the target of the attackers, whether Arabs or Jews.` - [Urban Violence in the Middle East, Ulrike Freitag, Nelida Fuccaro, Claudia Ghrawi, Nora Laf](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzacebaaxtpwifde4o6htzs6w2pavgdxfx5uf4audruajj3xtkgezergs?filename=%28Space%20and%20Place_%2014%29%20Ulrike%20Freitag%20%28editor%29_%20Nelida%20Fuccaro%20%28editor%29_%20Claudia%20Ghrawi%20%28editor%29_%20Nora%20Lafi%20%28editor%29%20-%20Urban%20Violence%20in%20the%20Middle%20East_%20Changing%20Cityscapes%20in%20the%20Transition%20from%20Empi.pdf)
- The British police and military were indirectly to blame for the high amount of Jewish casualties due to British troops preventing the entering of the Haganah into the Old City to help protect the Jewish civilians.
    - `Jerusalem's newly formed Jewish self-defense organization, the Haganah, had sent groups, some of them armed, to areas outside the walls but had failed to station a contingent inside the Old City's Jewish Quarter. After the eruption two groups, armed with sticks and metal rods, were dispatched toward the Old City but barred from entering by British troops. The British belatedly sent contingents of Indian troops to protect the Jewish Quarter and disperse the rioters. Inexplicably, that night Governor Storrs ordered the Indian troops to leave the Old City. The following morning (April 5) the rioting resumed. Again British troops at the gates prevented Jewish relief from entering, though a few armed men in medical garb managed to infiltrate in ambulances. The British declared martial law, and troops reentered the Old City and disarmed both sides. The violence continued, but on a low level, the following day as well. The Haganah managed to remove from the Old City approximately three hundred Jews who lived in isolated houses outside the Jewish quarter. Only on April 7 was order fully restored.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)

### 1920 Palin Commission
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palin_Commission)
- The Palin Commission or Palin Commission of Inquiry was a British Royal Commission convened to investigate the cause of the [[1920 Nebi Musa Riots]].
- The report found that the attack was primarily against the Jewish citizens.
    - `From these figures it is clear that the incidence of the attack was against the Jews and that the attack against them was made in customary mob fashion with sticks, stones and knives. All the evidence goes to show that these attacks were of a cowardly and treacherous description, mostly against old men, women and children and frequently in the back. The total retaliatory efforts of the Jews and the Military Authorities resulted in only 25 recorded casualties.` - [Palin Commission](http://users.cecs.anu.edu.au/~bdm/yabber/yabber_palin.html)
- The report found
	- `A` - [Palin Commission](http://users.cecs.anu.edu.au/~bdm/yabber/yabber_palin.html)
- The report conclusions were:
    - `The following are the considered opinions submitted by the Court:
      
      `1. That the causes of the alienation and exasperation of the feelings of the population of Palestine are:
	      `a. Disappointment at the non-fulfilment of promises made to them by British propaganda.`
	      `b. Inability to reconcile the Allies' declared policy of self-determination with the Balfour Declaration, giving rise to a sense of betrayal and intense anxiety for their future.`
	      `c. Misapprehension of the true meaning of the Balfour Declaration and forgetfulness of the guarantees determined therein, due to the loose rhetoric of politicians and the exaggerated statements and writings of interested persons, chiefly Zionists.`
	      `d. Fear of Jewish competition and domination, justified by experience and the apparent control exercised by the Zionists over the Administration.` `e. Zionist indiscretion and aggression, since the Balfour Declaration aggravating such fears.`
	      `f. Anti-British and anti-Zionist propaganda working on the population already inflamed by the sources of irritation aforesaid.`
      
      `2. That the Zionist Commission and the official Zionists by their impatience, indiscretion and attempts to force the hands of the Administration, are largely responsible for the present crisis.
      
      `3. That the Administration prior to the riots on the whole maintained under difficult circumstances an attitude of equal justice to all parties and that the allegations of bias put forward by both sides, Arab and Zionist, are unfounded.
      
      `4. That the Administration was considerably hampered in its policy by the direct interference of the Home Authorities, and particularly by the fact that the late Chief Political Officer, Colonel Meinertzhagen, acted as a direct channel of communication with the Foreign Office independent of the High Commissioner and submitted to the Foreign Office, advice, not only independent of the High Commissioner, but at times contrary to the latter's considered opinion.
      
      `5. That the non-publication of the Foreign Office declaration of policy, though rejected for serious reasons, was an error.
      
      `6. That although the deliberation over a policy of accepting the Emir Feisal as titular King of Palestine might have aggravated the local situation, had it become publicly known, there is not sufficient evidence to show whether it did so become known to other than the Zionists, who undoubtedly were alarmed at it.
      
      `7. That the Military Governorate of Jerusalem failed to make adequate preparations for a possible disturbance at the Nebi Musa Pilgrimage in spite of the receipt of warnings and ample knowledge of the situation, such failure being probably due to over confidence induced by the success of the police authorities in handling earlier demonstrations.
      
      `8.That in spite of the prohibition of political demonstrations no definite instructions were issued by the Military Governorate to the police to prevent the delivery of inflammatory speeches on the occasion of the Nebi Musa pilgrimage.
      
      ` 9. That the decision to withdraw the troops from inside [p82] the city at 6 a.m. on Monday, April 5, whoever was responsible for it, was an error of judgement.
      
      `10. That the Military were slow in obtaining full control of the city after Martial Law had been proclaimed.
      
      `11. That the situation at present obtaining in Palestine is exceedingly dangerous and demands firm and patient handling if a serious catastrophe is to be avoided.` - [Palin Commission](http://users.cecs.anu.edu.au/~bdm/yabber/yabber_palin.html)    