- On 1 March 1920, The Battle of Tel Hai was fought between Arab and Jewish forces at the village of Tel Hai in Northern Galilee from the violent spill over of the [[1920 Franco-Syrian War]].
- Arabs arrived in Tel Hai claiming they were searching for Jews possibly assisting the French troops starting attacks on the settlements walls. The attacking Arabs failed and a total of 6 people died on the defending side.
    - `On March 1 the Arabs struck. Defending Tel Hai, Kfar Gil'adi, and the reoccupied Metulla were thirty to thirty-five individuals at each site, armed only with rifles, pistols, and grenades, and with insufficient ammunition. The surrounding Arab forces, which included inhabitants of the neighboring village of al-Khalisa as well as Bedouin bands, numbered several hundred. A party of Arabs gained entry into the Tel Hai compound court by saying that they wanted to check whether the Jews were quartering French troops. A fierce firefight erupted, apparently triggered by an unintentional shot by one of the Jewish guards. The "visiting" Arabs were driven out and rejoined those outside, who promptly mounted a number of assaults on the settlement's walls, in which dozens of them died and more were wounded. Altogether six of the defenders were killed or mortally wounded, including Trumpeldor and two women; several others sustained lighter injuries. Trumpeldor died while being carried from Tel Hai to Kfar Gil'adi and is reputed to have said before expiring: "It is good to die for our country"—a statement that became, along with the whole Tel Hai episode, a cornerstone of Zionist mythology.`
      
      `The assailants failed to take Tel Hai, but the defenders, their ammunition and numbers depleted, understood that the stronghold could not be held.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)    
- The settlers of Tel Hai and other local areas returned in October 1920 following the French victory in the the 1920 Franco-Syrian War. and these areas would later be considered as a part of Mandatory Palestine following the [1920 San Remo Resolution](1920%20San%20Remo%20Resolution).
    - `The settlers of Kfar Gil'adi, Tel Hai, and Metulla returned to the area only in October 1920, after the French had occupied Damascus and crushed the rebellious Arab bands. In December, France and Britain agreed at San Remo that the panhandle would revert to British rule, and the French withdrew. The three settlements became part of British Mandatory Palestine and the Jewish National Home-to-be.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)