- On 24 July 1922, The Palestine mandate was approved at a private meeting of the Council of the League of Nations at St. James Palace in London giving the British formal international recognition of the position they had held de facto in the region since the end of 1917 in Palestine and since 1920–21 in Transjordan.
    - `On 24 July 1922, in a session held at St. James Palace in London, the Council of the League of Nations finally gave its approval to the British Mandate in Palestine. This decision climaxed a long, arduous struggle on the part of the British to gain formal international recognition of their suzerainty in the Holy Land, which had existed de facto since December 1917. The document which was approved, however, the draft mandate, had itself been the product of difficult negotiations, this time between the British Foreign Office and the Zionist Organization. These negotiations were highly significant, for they determined the ground rules which were to govern the relationship between future British administrations and the Zionists: the mandate outlined the Zionist role in the government, in the allotment of land, and in the economic development of the country. Yet for some reason, this entire issue has been largely overlooked in studies of the mandate. Hopefully, this article will demonstrate that these negotiations have not merited such inattention.` - [Zionist-British Negotiations over the Draft Mandate for Palestine, 1920, John J. McTague, Jr](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.2307/4467095)

### 1948 Plan Dalet
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plan_Dalet)
- On 4 April - 14 May 1948, Plan Dalet or Plan D was
- On 10 March 1948, the plan was formulated and dispatched to the Haganah and originally scheduled to begin mid-May 1948 but was implemented earlier on 4 April 1948.
    - `Plan D, formulated in early March and signed and dispatched to the Haganah brigade commanders on 10 March, was Yadin’s blueprint for concerted operations on the eve of the final British departure and the pan-Arab invasion that was expected to follow hard on its heels. It was scheduled to be implemented in the first half of May, as the British convoys were due to converge on Haifa and Rafah on their way out and as the Arab states’ armies deployed for invasion along the frontiers. The Haganah brigades were expected to move more or less simultaneously in the various sectors.`
      
      `But a variety of factors, chief of which were the debacle on the roads, the specific threat to West Jerusalem and the American retreat from partition, persuaded Ben-Gurion and the HGS to launch this series of campaigns—which, in retrospect, can be seen as the implementation of Plan D—prematurely and in piecemeal fashion. Operation Nahshon was the first step.` - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
	- `In retrospect, Operation Nahshon marked the start of the implementation of Plan D. The operational order for Nahshon, issued by Avidan on 4 April, defined the objectives as (1) “to push [a] convoy” from Kibbutz Hulda to Jerusalem and (2) “to open the road to Jerusalem by means of offensive operations against enemy bases” along the road to assure the passage of future convoys. The order’s preamble noted that “all of ‘shem’s’ [that is, the Arab] villages along this route are to be regarded as enemy assembly points or bases of operation.”`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)