- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1936%E2%80%931939_Arab_revolt_in_Palestine)
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaffa_riots_(April_1936))
- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arab_general_strike_(Mandatory_Palestine))
- On 15 April 1936 – 26 August 1939, A uprising by Palestinian Arabs in Mandatory Palestine against the British administration of the Palestine Mandate began demanding Arab independence and the end of the policy of open-ended Jewish immigration and land purchases with the stated goal of establishing a Jewish National Home.
- On 15 April 1936, the revolt was Sparked by shooting at three jews which killed two, Zvi Danenberg and Israel Chazan, by a Qassamite band of the Palestinian Black Hand, followed by the retaliatory killing of two Arab workers.
    - `The spark for the revolt came on the evening of 15 April 1936 when Arab gunmen stopped a convoy of vehicles on the Nablus–Tulkarm road and shot three Jews in one of the vehicles, two of whom died. This was another outrage in the cycle of attacks and counter- attacks between Jews and Palestinians stretching back to 1920 but these deaths ignited a three- year nationwide rebellion. Kufiyyat hid the faces of the gunmen at the roadblock who demanded money and stole £P.275 and so it seemed that they were bandits there to rob the convoy. In the cab of one truck there were two Jews, Zvi (or Tzvi) Danenberg (or Danenburg) in the driver’s seat accompanied by Israel Chazan (or Hazan). Along the row of halted vehicles the gunmen asked who was Jewish, adding for the benefit of their victims: ‘Go and inform the police and the press that we are robbing this money to purchase arms and take vengeance for the murder of the Holy Sheikh, Izza Din El Kassam.’ The gunmen were Qassamites (Qassamiyyun) of the Palestinian Black Hand band (‘Isabat al-Kaff al-Aswad) proclaiming their allegiance to the late Muslim cleric, nationalist, and insurgent leader, Shaykh ‘Izz al-Din al-Qassam, shot dead by British Palestine police in a gun battle at Ya‘bad village near Jenin in November 1935.` - [Britain's Pacification of Palestine: The British Army, the Colonial State, and the Arab Revolt, 1936–1939, Matthew Hughes](https://www.google.co.uk/books/edition/_/r1N-DwAAQBAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0)
- On 19 April 1936, a riot in Jaffa began lasting 3 days which started from false reports of Arabs being killed.
    - `A series of assaults on Arabs in Tel Aviv began, and on the 19th April, excited by false rumours that Arabs had been killed, Arab mobs in Jaffa began attacking Jews and murdered three of them. Police, reinforced by troops, dispersed the rioters. Curfew was imposed on Jaffa and Tel Aviv, and the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council and the Emergency Regulations thereunder were brought into force for all Palestine by proclamation.` - [Peel Commission Report](https://unispal.un.org/pdfs/Cmd5479.pdf)
- 9 Jews were reported dead and 60 injured in the first day's rioting.
	- `On April 19 mobs of unemployed peasants and migrant workers from Syria, fired by rumors that an Arab woman and three Syrian laborers had been murdered in Tel Aviv, rampaged through Jaffa, killing nine Jews and injuring almost sixty` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- The riot was suppressed by British security forces.
    - `On the same day, 19 April 1936, the British Palestine High Commissioner, General Sir Arthur Wauchope, using the powers vested in him by Article IV of the Palestine (Defence) Order in Council of 1931 issued the Emergency Regulations 1936 that formed the repressive legal basis for British counter-rebel measures, as will be seen in the next chapter. The British also flooded the country with soldiers, mobilising and moving in troops to supplement Palestine’s permanent garrison of two infantry battalions and RAF-manned armoured cars,` - [Britain's Pacification of Palestine: The British Army, the Colonial State, and the Arab Revolt, 1936–1939, Matthew Hughes](https://www.google.co.uk/books/edition/_/r1N-DwAAQBAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0)  
- One impact of the riot was the start of a political demand that the Jewish neighbourhoods of Jaffa be separated from Jaffa and incorporated into Tel Aviv.
    - `The demand by the Jewish neighbourhoods within the Jaffa city limits for annexation to Tel Aviv—that is, for severance from Jaffa—was the essence of the problem. The annexation issue rapidly became transformed from a local problem to one of the yishuv as a whole, which engaged the yishuv institutions as a Zionist struggle of the highest order. The Arab revolt left a deep mark on the Jaffa Jews. Their circumstances deteriorated as time passed. The depressed conditions of the Jewish area and its poor sanitation were especially significant. Waves of Jewish refugees flooded into Tel Aviv in numbers hitherto unknown in the city` - [The Jews of Jaffa at the Time of the Arab Revolt: the emergence of the demand for annexation, Tamir Goren]([https://sci.bban.top/pdf/10.1080/14725886.2015.1090113.pdf](https://annas-archive.org/scidb/10.1080/14725886.2015.1090113))
- On 20 April 1936, The first part of the movement was seized upon by the newly created Arab Higher Committee under the chairmanship of Amin al-Husseini, which made the revolt focus on a general strike involving many Arabs in Mandatory Palestine, encompassing labour, transportation, and commercial activities. This strike escalated into violence, marking the first phase of the Arab revolt.
    - `On the 20th April an Arab National Committee was formed at Nablus and resolved that a general strike should be declared throughout the country and maintained until the Arab demands as put forward in the previous November had been conceded. By the end of the month National Committees had also been constituted in all the towns and in some of the larger villages in Palestine. On the 21st April the leaders of the five united parties accepted the decision taken at Nablus and called a general strike of all Arabs engaged in labour, transport, and shopkeeping on the next day. On the 25th April at a meeting of all Arab parties a Supreme Arab Committee, subsequently known as the Arab Higher Committee, was established.` - [Peel Commission Report](https://unispal.un.org/pdfs/Cmd5479.pdf)
- On 25 April 1936, the Arab Higher Committee created a list of demands including a stop to jews immigrating and land transfers to Jews to the Mandate Palestine area.
    - `On April 25, representatives of the various factions met in Jerusalem and set up a wall-to-wall eight-man body called the Arab Higher Committee (AHC), which became the successor to the PAE and led the Palestinian struggle during 1936-39 and 1946-48. Amin al-Husseini, elected AHC chairman, emerged as the revolt's leader. At the end of April the AHC declared that the strike would end only when the government put a stop to Zionist immigration and land transfers, and allowed a popularly elected legislature; if the demands were not accepted by May 15, the Palestine Arab community would embark on active resistance, including armed violence.`  - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf)
- On 12 October 1936, a ceasefire was in place for Lord Peel of the Peel Commission to survey the mandate areas marking the end of the first phase of the revolt.
    - `The revolt endured in its first phase to 12 October 1936 when a ceasefire paved the way for a British mission to Palestine headed by Lord Peel to decide the country’s future, the British Palestine Royal (or Peel) Commission of 1937.` - [Britain's Pacification of Palestine: The British Army, the Colonial State, and the Arab Revolt, 1936–1939, Matthew Hughes](https://www.google.co.uk/books/edition/_/r1N-DwAAQBAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0)
- In November 1936, The strike was eventually called off, by the Arab Higher Committee, under the influence of Britain setting up the Peel Commission. King Ghazi of Iraq, King Abdul-Aziz of Saudi Arabia and Emir Abdullah of Transjordan appealed to the workers to end the strike so they didn’t miss the orange growing season.
    - `On the 7th September the Colonial Office issued a Statement of Policy. It outlined the course of the disturbances and described “the situation which had been created ” as a “direct challenge to the authority of the British Government in Palestine“, It referred to the appointment of the Royal Commission and to the attempts at conciliation from outside, and pointed out that, owing to. the Arab leaders’ determination riot to end the strike until “fundamental changes” had been made in British policy, ”all efforts to introduce a reasonable spirit of accommodation have hitherto failed.” Finally it declared that the state of disorder must be brought to an end without delay, and announced that an additional division of troops was being sent to Palestine and that Lieutenant-General J. G. Dill would assume the supreme military command.
      
      `The reinforcements began to arrive in Palestine on the 22nd September and extensive operations were promptly set on foot with a view to rounding up the Arab bands. By the end of the month the number of British troops in the country had risen to about 20,000. Moreover, an Order in Council had been made authorizing the application of ”martial law” by, the High Commissioner or by the G.O.C. Palestine Forces as his delegate.
      
      `The outbreak was now clearly nearing its end. On the one hand, it was evident that the bands could not long resist SO large a military force; on the other hand, many of the less politically-minded Arabs were wearying of the long conflict and the personal insecurity and pecuniary sacrifice it entailed. The prospect of not participating in the orange-season, which opens in November, was particularly unpleasant. In this situation, the Arab Higher Committee, who had kept in touch with the Arab Kings and Princes throughout the disorders, welcomed the arrival of appeals for peace, couched in identical terms, from King Ibn Saud, King Ghazi of ‘Iraq, and the Amir Abdullah of Trans-Jordan. The text was as follows : -
      
      `”Through the President of the Arab Higher Committee to our sons the Arabs of Palestine :-
      
      `“We have been deeply pained by the present state of affairs in Palestine. For this reason ‘we have agreed with our Brothers the Kings and the Emir to call upon you to resolve for peace in order to save further shedding of blood. In doing this, we rely on the good intentions of our friend Great Britain, who has declared that she will do justice. You must be confident that we will continue our efforts to assist you.”` - [Peel Commission Report](https://unispal.un.org/pdfs/Cmd5479.pdf)
- In July 1937, the Arab Higher Committee rejected the Peel Commission.
	- 
- Benny Morris estimates across the entire revolt that between 3,000 and 6,000 dead for the Arabs, 6,000 were in detention and several hundred Palestinian Jews were killed. The greater effect of the general strike caused economic hardship amongst the targeted Yishuv with loss of sales of goods and services, and heightened unemployment but was offset with 50,000 new immigrants arriving.
    - `Estimates put Arab dead in the revolt at between 3,000 and 6,000. One Israeli historian says that 4,500 were killed by other Arabs. By the revolt's end, another 6,000 were in detention. Among the dead, incarcerated, and exiled were many potential leaders, which was vitally to impair Palestinian power in 1948, as was the loss of arms in the course of the rebellion. Hundreds of Arab houses — perhaps as many as 2,000 —were destroyed either in the course of warfare or in British punitive actions. The financial cost was enormous. Apart from the losses caused by the general strike of 1936, there were swaths of devastated fields and crops, with many roadside groves and orchards uprooted. The economic boycott of the Yishuv, which was instituted in late 1936 and continued through the revolt (though it was not universally honored), also cost the Arab community dearly, through loss of sales of goods and services, and heightened unemployment.
      
      `The Jews' physical losses were relatively insignificant—several hundred people were killed and some property was destroyed or damaged, but no settlement was destroyed; indeed, about three dozen new ones were established during the revolt. More than 50,000 immigrants arrived, and development of the economy and infrastructure accelerated—the port in Tel Aviv, metal works to turn out armored sheeting for vehicles, primitive munitions plants to produce mines and grenades (17,500 of the latter were produced during the revolt). By 1940 the Haganah's arms factories were producing two- and three inch mortars and mortar bombs. The Yishuv's transportation capabilities expanded to compensate for Arab trucks and buses which were no longer available. Unemployment was offset by the hiring of supernumerary policemen, the Histadrut's public works program, and infrastructure development.` - [Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001, Benny Morris](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafykbzaced6rtb5d4wthw3wapbnqafd3w7znfmikvzx43dqifs5amzbyzltas?filename=Righteous%20Victims%3A%20A%20History%20of%20the%20Zionist-Arab%20Conflict%2C%20--%20Benny%20Morris%20--%202001%20--%20Vintage%20--%209780679744757%20--%200ffdde5f35058146403a55786f6cfc18%20--%20Anna%E2%80%99s%20Archive.pdf) 