- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anglo-American_Committee_of_Inquiry)
- On 4 January 1946, The Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry was a joint British and American committee assembled in Washington, D.C. The committee was tasked to examine political, economic and social conditions in Mandatory Palestine and the well-being of the peoples now living there; to consult representatives of Arabs and Jews, and to make other recommendations 'as may be necessary' to for ad interim handling of these problems as well as for their permanent solution.
- On 20 April 1946, The report, entitled "Report of the Anglo-American Committee of Enquiry Regarding the Problems of European Jewry and Palestine", was published in Lausanne
	- [Report of the Anglo-American Committee of Enquiry Regarding the Problems of European Jewry and Palestine](https://avalon.law.yale.edu/subject_menus/angtoc.asp)
- The report caused an increase of violent protest in Iraq, Lebanon and Palestine with one newspaper calling for `jihad` or holy war. The report was endorsed by the Jewish Agency and condemned by the Arab League Council.
    - `The Jewish Agency endorsed the report’s immigration recommendation but rejected all the rest. The Arabs rejected everything. They demanded immediate independence for an Arab-ruled Palestine, not “binationalism,” whatever that might mean, and called for an immediate cessation of immigration. One Foreign Office cable, in the wake of the report, spoke of Arab hatred of the Jews as being greater than that of the Nazis. The AHC—in a letter from Jamal Husseini to Attlee—issued an “ultimatum” and threatened “jihad.” In a follow-up interview with British high commissioner Sir Alan Cunningham, Husseini declared his willingness “to die” for the cause. When Cunningham responded that this didn’t really trouble him and that what worried him was the welfare of “the ordinary Arab population,” Husseini rejoined that “they were prepared to die too.”`
      
      `The publication of the report triggered violent demonstrations in Baghdad and Palestine; in Beirut, the US Information Center was set on fire. At least one Baghdad newspaper called for jihad: “The Arabs must proclaim a crusade [that is, holy war] to save the Holy Land from [the] western gang which understands only the language of force.” Another called on the Arabs to “annihilate all European Jews in Palestine.” The AAC report was officially condemned by the Arab League Council meeting at Bludan, Syria, on 8–10 June 1946.` - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)

[1946 Morrison–Grady Plan](1946%20Morrison–Grady%20Plan)