- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Conference_of_1946%E2%80%931947)
- On September 1946 and February 1947, The London Conference was called by UK Prime Minister Clement Attlee to resolve the future governance of Palestine and negotiate an end of the Mandate.
- On 18 February 1947, The Conference's failure to reach agreements between Arabs and Jews regarding the future of Palestine led The UK Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Ernest Bevin, to renounce the Mandate and `submit the problem to the judgment of the United Nations` due to `the obligations undertaken to the two communities in Palestine have been shown to be irreconcilable`.
    - `His Majesty's Government have thus been faced with an irreconcilable conflict of principles. There are in Palestine about 1,200,000 Arabs and 600,000 Jews. For the Jews the essential point of principle is the creation of a sovereign Jewish State. For the Arabs, the essential point of principle is to resist to the last the establishment of Jewish sovereignty in any part of Palestine. The discussions of the last month have quite clearly shown that there is no prospect of resolving this conflict by any settlement negotiated between the parties. But if the conflict has to be resolved by arbitrary decision, that is not a decision which His Majesty's Government are empowered as Mandatory to take.`
      
      `His Majesty's Government have of themselves no power, under the terms of the Mandate, to award the country either to the Arabs or to the Jews, or even to partition it between them. It is in these circumstances that we have decided that we are unable to accept the scheme put forward either by the Arabs or by the Jews, or to impose ourselves a solution of our own. We have, therefore, reached the conclusion that the only course now open to us is to submit the problem to the judgment of the United Nations. We intend to place before them an historical account of the way in which His Majesty's Government have discharged their trust in Palestine over the last 25 years. We shall explain that the Mandate has proved to be unworkable in practice, and that the obligations undertaken to the two communities in Palestine have been shown to be irreconcilable. We shall describe the various proposals which have been put forward for dealing with the situation, namely, the Arab Plan, the Zionists' aspirations, so far as we have been able to ascertain them, the proposals of the Anglo-American Committee, and the various proposals which we ourselves have put forward. We shall then ask the United Nations to consider our report, and to recommend a settlement of the problem. We do not intend ourselves to recommend any particular solution.
      
      `Though we shall give immediate notice of our intentions, we see great difficulty in having this matter considered by the United Nations before the next regular session of the General Assembly in September. We regret that the final settlement should be subject to this further delay, particularly in view of the continuing strain on the British Administration and Services during this further period. We trust, however, that as the question is now to be referred to the United Nations all concerned will exercise restraint until their judgment is known.` [HM Parliament Debate on the Palestine Conference, U.K. Parliament, 1947](https://api.parliament.uk/historic-hansard/commons/1947/feb/18/palestine-conference-government-policy)