- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations_Partition_Plan_for_Palestine)
- The United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine was a proposal by the United Nations Special Committee on Palestine (UNSCOP), which recommended a partition of Mandatory Palestine at the end of the British Mandate into two states, one Jewish, one Arab. The United Nations Palestine Commission was responsible for implementing the UN Partition Plan of Palestine and acted as the Provisional Government of Palestine. The 1947–48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine and a refusal by the British government to impose a scheme which was not acceptable to both Arabs and Jews in Palestine prevented the Commission from fulfilling its responsibilities.
- On 29 November 1947, the UN General Assembly adopted the Plan as Resolution 181 which passed by 7 of the 11 members, with Iran, India and Yugoslavia voting against, and Australia abstaining.
- The resolution recommended the creation of independent Arab and Jewish States linked economically and a Special International Regime for the city of Jerusalem and its surroundings. The Arab state was to have a territory of 11,100 square kilometres or 42%, the Jewish state a territory of 14,100 square kilometres or 56%, while the remaining 2%, comprising the cities of Jerusalem, Bethlehem and the adjoining area, would become an international zone.
	- `The General Assembly,`
	  
	  `Having met in special session at the request of the mandatory Power to constitute and instruct a special committee to prepare for the consideration of the question of the future govemment of Palestine at thc second regular session;`
	  
	  `Having constituted a Spccial Committee and instructed it to investigate all questions and issues rdevant to the problem of Palestine, and to prepare proposals for the solution of the problem, and`  
	  
	  `Having received and examined the report of the Special Committee (document A/364) including a number of unanimous recommendations and a plan of partition with economic union approved by the majority of the Special Committee,` 	  
	  `
Considers that the present situation in Palestine is one which is likcly to impair the general
welfare and friendly relations among nations;
T akes note of the declaration by the mandatory Power that it plans to complete its evacuation of Palcstine by 1 August 1948;`
	  
	  `
Recommends to the United Kingdom, as the
mandatory Power for Palestine, and to all other
Members of the United Nations the adoption and
implementation, with regard to the future govemment of Palestine, of the Plan of Partition with
Economic Union set out below; ` - [UNGA Resolution 181](https://daccess-ods.un.org/access.nsf/Get?OpenAgent&DS=A/RES/181(II)&Lang=E)
- The Arab Higher Committee, the Arab League and other Arab leaders and governments rejected it on the basis that in addition to the Arabs forming a two-thirds majority, they owned a majority of the lands.
    - `The League demanded independence for Palestine as a “unitary” state, with an Arab majority and minority rights for the Jews. The AHC went one better and insisted that the proportion of Jews to Arabs in the unitary state should stand at one to six, meaning that only Jews who lived in Palestine before the British Mandate be eligible for citizenship.`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
    - `With the approach of the UN General Assembly deliberations in autumn 1947, Arab thinking grew more focused and military. The League’s Political Committee met in Sofar, Lebanon, on 16–19 September, and urged the Palestine Arabs to fight partition, which it called “aggression,” “without mercy.” The League promised them, in line with Bludan, assistance “in manpower, money and equipment” should the United Nations endorse partition. Indeed, warned the committee, the Arab states themselves “would be forced to take decisive action”; the governments, explained the committee, “would be unable to suppress the turbulent passions of their people resulting from the wrong that would be done them [by the passage of the partition resolution] and sit still.”`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
    - `In the end, the Arab League proved unable to agree on a clear goal for the unofficial war or to define a strategy by which it might be won. Instead, the leaders decided on something more modest. The League vowed, in very general language, “to try to stymie the partition plan and prevent the establishment of a Jewish state in Palestine,” and the member states pledged to give the Palestine Arabs ten thousand rifles (Jordan and Lebanon a thousand each, and Syria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Egypt two thousand each, each rifle to be supplied with five hundred bullets) as well as other light weapons. In addition, three thousand volunteers were to be trained in Syria by 15 January 1948. The League promised an additional million pounds for the war effort.`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
    - `The Arab get-togethers from Bludan onward had been marked by disunity, mutual suspicion, and cross-purposes. The antagonisms and suspicions undermined any hope of firm, realistic decision-making in the League councils. At the same time, in order not to appear weak-kneed and hesitant, moderate rulers — such as Abdullah — allowed themselves to be pressed into extremist policies (or at least utterances), lest they be seen as insufficiently zealous. All paid lip service to Arab unity and the Palestine Arab cause, and all opposed partition. But all were at a loss about how to prevent it. Most, though they could not admit it to the others (or, perhaps, to themselves), knew that their armies were weak. Egypt and Jordan’s military commanders estimated that the Haganah would prove formidable; other Arabs may have been more optimistic. One thing was clear, however: there could be no intervention so long as the British were in Palestine. None wished to fight the British, with whom most were aligned and who all understood were too powerful to challenge.`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
- They also indicated an unwillingness to accept any form of territorial division, arguing that it violated the principles of national self-determination in the UN Charter which granted people the right to decide their own destiny. They announced their intention to take all necessary measures to prevent the implementation of the resolution. Subsequently, a civil war broke out in Palestine, and the plan was not implemented.
    - `Such sentiments translated into action in 1948. During the “civil war,” when the opportunity arose, Palestinian militiamen who fought alongside the Arab Legion consistently expelled Jewish inhabitants and razed conquered sites, as happened in the Etzion Bloc and the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem’s Old City. Subsequently, the Arab armies behaved in similar fashion. All the Jewish settlements conquered by the invading Jordanian, Syrian, and Egyptian armies—about a dozen in all, including Beit Ha'arava, Neve Ya'akov, and Atarot in the Jordanian sector; Masada and Sha'ar Hagolan in the Syrian sector; and Yad Mordechai, Nitzanim, and Kfar Darom in the Egyptian sector—were razed after their inhabitants had fled or been incarcerated or expelled.`
      
    - `These expulsions by the Arab regular armies stemmed quite naturally from the expulsionist mindset prevailing in the Arab states. The mindset characterized both the public and the ruling elites. All vilified the Yishuv and opposed the existence of a Jewish state on "their" (sacred Islamic) soil, and all sought its extirpation, albeit with varying degrees of bloody-mindedness. Shouts of "Idbah al Yahud" (slaughter the Jews) characterized equally street demonstrations in Jaffa, Cairo, Damascus, and Baghdad both before and during the war and were, in essence, echoed, usually in tamer language, by most Arab leaders.` - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)    
- The Arab delegates at the UN said that any attempt to implement the resolution would lead to war.
    - `On 2 December the gulema, or council of doctors of theology and sacred law, of Al-Azhar University in Cairo—one of Islam’s supreme authorities proclaimed a “worldwide jihad in defense of Arab Palestine.” The Arab UN delegates denounced the resolution and declared that any attempt to implement it would lead to war. Bevin described the Arab reactions to the vote as “even worse than we had expected.” A particular worry of Bevin’s was the safety of the hundreds of thousands Jews scattered around the Arab world, and particularly the hundred thousand Jews of Baghdad, who were at “risk of having their throats cut.”`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
- Ben-Gurion was aware of the ensuing war to come but still endorsed the plan as an achievement like no other for the Jewish people.
    - `Ben-Gurion, too, believed that war would ensue. But still, he argued: “I know of no greater achievement by the Jewish people ... in its long history since it became a people.” Though the Arabs could not, or refused to, see it, Resolution 181, besides geopolitically redesigning a sliver of eastern Mediterranean coastline, was an emphatic ethical statement, one of those crossroads in history where morality and realism come together. Or as one Jewish historian later put it: “[It was] Western civilization’s gesture of repentance for the Holocaust ... the repayment of a debt owed by those nations that realized that they might have done more to prevent or at least limit the scale of Jewish tragedy during World War II.”`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
- p65
    -   - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)
- 
	- `The immediate trigger of the 1948 War was the November 1947 UN partition resolution. The Zionist movement, except for its fringes, accepted the proposal. Most lamented the imperative of giving up the historic heartland of Judaism, Judea and Samaria (the West Bank), with East Jerusalem’s Old City and Temple Mount at its core; and many were troubled by the inclusion in the prospective Jewish state of a large Arab minority. But the movement, with Ben-Gurion and Weizmann at the helm, said “yes.”`  - [1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War, Benny Morris](https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/bafykbzaceboh6eehlb6m6qeyfzcadyiri4vhj3syboxaidhido32jriuuaj3c?filename=Benny%20Morris%20-%201948_%20A%20History%20of%20the%20First%20Arab-Israeli%20War-Yale%20University%20Press%20%282008%29.pdf)