- [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plan_Dalet)
- On 29 April 1948, The end of the British Mandate for Palestine was formally made by way of the `Palestine: Termination of the Mandate` bill in the UK Parliament. A public statement prepared by the UK Colonial and Foreign Office confirmed termination of British responsibility for the administration of Palestine from midnight on 14 May 1948.
	- `The necessary legislation to sanction the end of the British mandate in Palestine was contained in the Palestine Bill, which received the Royal Assent on April 29 [1948] after being quickly passed. It provided that on the day the mandate was relinquished, subsequently named as May 15, British jurisdiction should be ended and the Government should cease to be responsible for the government of Palestine. Any appeal to the Privy Council pending from a court in Palestine other than a prize court would abate on the relinquishment of the mandate, and actions in respect of good faith and in the course of duty were prohibited. Mr. Creech Jones, the Colonial Secretary, moving the second reading on Mch. 10, defended the policy and said that from May 15 the authority for administration would be the United Nations Palestine Commission. The situation, he said, had tragically deteriorated since the United Nations Assembly resolution, and the plan had in many respects prove impracticable and unworkable. The immediate prospects in Palestine were not bright, and it was now for others to find and implement the solution which had eluded us.` [link](https://archive.org/details/whitakersbritain0000unse/page/126/mode/2up?view=theater) - Whitaker's Britain,
- 
	- ` ` -  [Plan Dalet: Master Plan for the Conquest of Palestine, Walid Khalid](https://www.palestine-studies.org/sites/default/files/attachments/jps-articles/Plan%20dalet.pdf)